[[!meta title="Remote Desktop Accessibility"]]

* Authors: [Leonard de Ruijter][1]
* Download [beta version][2]
* NVDA compatibility: 2023.2 and later

The RDAccess add-on (Remote Desktop Accessibility) adds support to access remote desktop sessions to NVDA using Microsoft Remote Desktop, Citrix or VMware Horizon.
When installed in NVDA on both the client and the server, speech and braille generated on the server will be spoken and brailled by the client machine.
This enables a user experience where managing a remote system feels just as performant as operating the local system.

## Features

* Support for Microsoft Remote Desktop, Citrix and VMware Horizon
* Speech and braille output
* Automatic detection of remote braille using NVDA's automatic braille display detection
* Automatic detection of remote speech using a dedicated detection process that can be disabled in NVDA's settings dialog
* Support for portable copies of NVDA running on a server (additional configuration required for Fitrix)
* Full support for portable copies of NVDA running on a client (no additional administrative privileges required to install the add-on)
* Multiple active client sessions at the same time
* Remote desktop instantly available after NVDA start
* Ability to control specific synthesizer and braille display settings without leaving the remote session
* Ability to use speech and braille from the user session when accessing secure desktops

## Getting started

1. Install RDAccess in both a client and server copy of NVDA.
1. The remote system should automatically start speaking using the local speech synthesizer. If not, in the NVDA instance on the server, select the remote speech synthesizer from NVDA"s synthesizer selection dialog.
1. To use braille, enable automatic braille display detection using the braille display selection dialog.

## Issues and contributing

If you want to report an issue or contribute, take a look at [the issues page on Github][3]

## External components

This add-on relies on [RD Pipe][4], a library written in Rust backing the remote desktop client support.
RD Pipe is redistributed as part of this add-on under the terms of [version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License][5] as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

[[!tag dev]]

[1]: https://github.com/leonardder/

[2]: https://www.nvaccess.org/addonStore/legacy?file=rdAccess-beta

[3]: https://github.com/leonardder/rdAccess/issues

[4]: https://github.com/leonardder/rd_pipe-rs

[5]: https://github.com/leonardder/rd_pipe-rs/blob/master/LICENSE
