[[!meta title="Weather Plus"]]

* Author: Adriano Barbieri
* NVDA compatibility: 2017.3 to 2019.3
* Download: [Stable Version][1]

# ABOUT WEATHER PLUS: #

* This plugin adds local temperature and forecasts to 24 hours up to 9 additional days for NVDA.
* Copyright (C) [Adriano Barbieri](mailto:adrianobarb@yahoo.it)
* Released under the GNU GPL (General Public License) v2

# Weather Plus works through the use and presence of the following services: #
* [https://developer.yahoo.com/weather/](https://developer.yahoo.com/weather/)
* [http://woeid.rosselliot.co.nz/lookup/](http://woeid.rosselliot.co.nz/lookup/)
* [http://www.geonames.org/](http://www.geonames.org/)
* [http://veloroutes.org/elevation/](http://veloroutes.org/elevation/)
* [http://www.nvda.it/](http://www.nvda.it/)

# USE: #
* Press NVDA + w to the current temperature and weather conditions.
* Press NVDA + shift + W for 24 hours forecast and forecast up to 9 days.
* Press NVDA + shift + ctrl + w to set a temporary city.
* Press NVDA + shift + control + alt + w to open the Weather Plus settings dialog.
* Press NVDA + alt + w to know the last update of the weather report.
* Press control + shift + w to toggle between Fahrenheit, Celsius or Kelvin.

# To set Weather Plus: #
Read the section: Weather Plus First Settings.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Weather Plus First Settings: #

You must set the Weather Plus addon before its first use!

Go to:

Preferences submenu

Weather Plus Settings submenu

Show configuration items.

# Press the item for: #

* Set and Manage Your Cities...
	* Displays or allows to set the current city from a list.
* Documentation
	* Opens the help file for the current language.
* Check for Update...
	* Notify if there is an updated version available.

Press the item:

# Set and Manage Your Cities... #

Displays or allows to set the current city from a list

The following message is displayed only for the first time!

Settings Preset

None

F1: help placing, F2: last TAB selection, F3: list and edit box, F4: control duration Weather Forecast, F5: volume controls.

Enter a City, woeID or choose one from the list, if available.

Note: The F5 key is available if the sound effects are activated.

After pressing the item "Set and Manage Your Cities...", find you other buttons as follows:

# Test #

Testing the validity of woeID entry and find the name of city assigned or viceversa.

# Add #

Add the current city into your list.

This button is activated if you select a city from the list, or it has passed the test.

# Details #

Displays information on the current city.

This button is activated if you select a city from the list, or it has passed the test.

# Define #

Allows you to define the area, in order to adapt the sound effects.

This button is activated if the audio effects are installed and activated, and you select a city from the list.

# Preset #

Presets a city as the default, will be used every time you restart the plugin.

This button is activated if you select a city previously inserted in the list and not preset, or it has passed the test.

# Remove #

Delete the current city from your list.

This button is activated if you select a city previously inserted in the list.

# Rename #

Rename the current city.

This button is activated if you select a city previously inserted in the list.

# Import new cities... #

Permits to incorporate in your list new cities importing them from another list with the extension *.zipcodes; you can select the city you want to import, by turning on the check box associated.

# Export your cities... #

Permits to save your list of cities in a specified path

This button is activated if you have added and saved at least one city into the list.

# Scale of temperature measurement: #

Use the radio button to select between:

* Celsius (by default)
* Fahrenheit
* Kelvin

# Degrees shown as: #

Use the radio button to select between:

* Celsius `-` Fahrenheit `-` Kelvin (by default)
* C `-` F `-` K
* Don't specify

Combo box:

# Weather Forecasts up to days: 3 #

Choose between 1 to 10 (3 days by default)

Toggle the check box for:

# Copy the weather report and weather forecast, including city details to clipboard #

check box not checked (by default)

# Enable audio effects (only for the current weather conditions) #

This check box also allows you to manage the installation of sound effects;

If the sound effects are installed and the check box is activated, the F5 key and the volume setting becomes available.

It will also be available an additional check box:

* Use only weather effects.

You can change the overall volume or change the last  heard sound effect and filter out the others sounds in your environment.

check box not checked (by default)

# Use only weather effects #

is available if sound effects are enabled;

If is enabled, allows to listen only weather effects such as rain, wind, thunder, etc., filtering out all environmental ones.

check box not checked (by default)

# Enable the reading of the hours in 24-hour format #

If disabled announces the time in 12-hour format, example: 12 AM `-` 12 PM.

check box checked (by default)

# Enable help buttons in the settings window #

check box checked (by default)

# Read wind information #

check box not checked (by default)

If enabled, you can also activate:

* Add wind direction;

Indicates the provenance of the wind.

check box checked (by default)

* Add speed of the wind;

Indicates the speed in kilometers or miles per hour.

check box checked (by default)

* Add speed in meters per second of the wind;

check box checked (by default)

* Add perceived temperature;

check box checked (by default)

# Read atmospherical information #

check box not checked (by default)

If enabled, you can also activate:

* Add humidity value;

Indicates the humidity in percent.

check box checked (by default)

* Add visibility value;

Indicate in kilometres or miles the distance visible.

check box checked (by default)

* Add atmospheric pressure value;

Indicates the atmospheric pressure in millibars or inches of mercury.

If it's checked, enable an additional check box that allows you to indicate the pressure in millimeters of mercury.

check box checked (by default)

* Add status of barometric pressure;

check box checked (by default)

# Read astronomical information #

Indicates the time of sunrise and sunset.

check box not checked (by default)

# Use the comma to separate decimals #

If enabled, uses the comma as a decimal separator, otherwise, use the point.

check box not checked (by default)

# Check for upgrade #

If is activated this alerts when there is an update of the addon.

check box checked (by default)

# Press the OK button to confirm the action or the Cancel button to cancel the action. #

If you have modified the cities list, by pressing "Cancel", you will be remembered and you can still save it.

# Note: your settings will be save in the file named: #

* "Weather.ini": startup settings of Weather Plus.
* "Weather.volumes": custom audio volume levels, regardless of the overall volume.
* "Weather.zipcodes": list of cities with their zip code and definitions.
* "Weather_searchkey": search key saved.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# What's new: #

# Version 7.3 #
* Fixed unexpected bug in case of page not found while searching for updates.

# Version 7.2 #
* Fixed bug after adding a city, if it is the first one entered it if you press ok button and restart the add-on.
* Now the progressdialog show again the time remaining and time elapsed.
* correct Italian translation in the help of the Rename button.

# Version 7.1 #
* Fixed bug in Removeupdate() during addon restart if the file is set in read only.

# Version 7.0 #
* Improved search window, now it possible manage all the search key inserted, add, delete and save it from context menu.
* Improved window opening control.
* some little bugs fixed.

# Version 6.9 #

* Implemented the recursive cities search with the valid system previously used in Weather_Plus Apixu version.

	* Press f1 in the settings window for an explanation of the available commands.

* Fixed issue with deleting some * .pyc, * .pyo modules during an NVDA update.

# Version 6.8 #

* updated flag necessary for the branches below;

	* nvda_snapshot_threshold and nvda_snapshot_threshold_py3_staging.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[!tag dev stable]]

[1]: https://addons.nvda-project.org/files/get.php?file=wetp
