Có Gì Mới cho NVDA


%!includeconf: ../changes.t2tconf

= 2018.4 =

== Tính năng mới ==
- Các bản chữ nổi mới: Tiếng Trung Quốc (Đài Loan, Quan Thoại) cấp 1 và cấp 2. (#5553)
- Trạng thái trả lời (Replied) / chuyển tiếp (Forwarded) đã được thông báo trên các thư trong danh sách thư của Microsoft Outlook. (#6911)
- NVDA giờ đây đã đọc được mô tả cho các biểu tượng cảm xúc và cả những kí tự là một phần của kho dữ liệu Unicode Common Locale Data Repository. (#6523)
- Trong Microsoft Word, có thể đọc thông báo khoảng cách con trỏ từ cạnh trên và cạnh trái của trang bằng cách bấm NVDA+Delete bàn phím số. (#1939)
- Trong Google Sheets với chế độ chữ nổi được bật, NVDA không còn thông báo 'đã chọn' ở mọi ô khi di chuyển con trỏ giữa các ô. (#8879)


== Các thay đổi ==
- Đổi tên tùy chọn "Đọc các thông báo trợ giúp" trong hộp thoại trình bày đối tượng thành "Đọc các thông báo" để bao gồm việc đọc các thông báo toast trong Windows 8 và cao hơn. (#5789)
- Trong cài đặt bàn phím của NVDA, các hộp kiểm để bật / tắt các phím bổ trợ NVDA giờ đây hiển thị thành một danh sách thay vì là các hộp kiểm riêng lẻ.
- NVDA sẽ không còn đọc các thông tin thừa  khi xem đồng hồ từ khay hệ thống trên vài phiên bản Windows. (#4364)
- Cập nhật thư viện phiên dịch chữ nổi liblouis lên phiên bản 3.7.0. (#8697)
- Cập nhật eSpeak-NG lên bản commit 919f3240cbb

== Sửa lỗi ==
- Trong Outlook 2016/365, trạng thái phân loại và gắn cờ đã được đọc cho các thư. (#8603)
- Khi ngôn ngữ được chọn cho NVDA là Kirgyz, Mongolian hay Macedonian chẳng hạn, không còn tình trạng hiển thị hộp thoại lúc khởi động cảnh báo ngôn ngữ không được hệ thống hỗ trợ. (#8064)
- Việc di chuyển chuột đến đối tượng điều hướng giờ đây sẽ di chuyển chuột chính xác hơn đến vị trí chế độ duyệt trong Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome và Acrobat Reader DC. (#6460)
- Việc tương tác với các hộp xổ trên web trong Firefox, Chrome và Internet Explorer đã được cải thiện. (#8664)
+- Nếu đang chạy trên một phiên bản Windows XP hay Vista tiếng Nhật , NVDA giờ đây đã hiển thị cảnh báo yêu cầu phiên bản hệ điều hành như mong muốn. (#8771)
- Tăng khả năng vận hành trong Mozilla Firefox khi điều hướng trên các trang lớn với nhiều thay đổi động. (#8678)
- Không còn tình trạng hiện thuộc tính phông trong chữ nổi nếu đã được tắt trong cài đặt định dạng tài liệu. (#7615)
- NVDA không còn bị lỗi khi theo dõi con trỏ trong File Explorer và các ứng dụng khác đang dùng UI Automation khi một ứng dụng khác đang hoạt động (xử lý tập tin âm thanh hàng loạt chẳng hạn). (#7345)
- Trong các trình đơn ARIA trên web, phím Escape giờ đây sẽ được chuyển đến trình đơn và không còn tình trạng tắt chế độ focus vô điều kiện. (#3215)
- NVDA không còn từ chối thông báo con trỏ trên các trang web mà con trỏ thay thế cho một điều khiển không còn tồn tại. (#6606, #8341)
- Trong Gmail mới, nếu dùng các phím di chuyển nhanh trong các thư khi đọc chúng, toàn bộ phần nội dung thư không còn bị đọc lên sau thành phần mà bạn mới điều hướng đến. (#8887)
- Sau khi cập nhật NVDA, các trình duyệt như Firefox và google Chrome sẽ không còn bị sự cố, và chế độ duyệt sẽ tiếp tục phản ánh một cách chính xác bất kì tài liệu nào đang được tải. (#7641) 


== Các thay đổi cho nhà phát triển ==
Phần này không được dịch. Vui lòng xem bản tiếng Anh changes.t2t.

= 2018.3.2 =
Đây là bản phát hành phụ nhằm giải quyết sự cố trong  Google Chrome khi điều hướng qua các tweett trên trang www.twitter.com. (#8777)


= 2018.3.1 =
Đây là bản phát hành phụ nhằm sửa một lỗi nghiêm trọng của NVDA làm cho các phiên bản 32 bit của Mozilla Firefox bị sự cố. (#8759)


= 2018.3 =
Các cải tiến của bản phát hành này bao gồm khả năng tự nhận biết nhiều màn hình nổi, hỗ trợ các tính năng mới của Windows 10, bao gồm bảng nhập biểu tượng cảm xúc  (Emoji input panel) và sửa nhiều lỗi.

== Các tính năng mới ==
- NVDA sẽ thông báo các lỗi ngữ pháp khi tiếp xúc một cách thích hợp trên các trang web trong Mozilla Firefox và Google Chrome. (#8280)
- Nội dung đã đánh dấu là đang được thêm vào hay xóa đi trong các trang web đã được thông báo trong Google Chrome. (#8558)
- Đã hỗ trợ nút cuộn của máy BrailleNote QT và Apex BT's khi sử dụng như một màn hình chữ nổi với NVDA. (#5992, #5993)
- Đã thêm kịch bản thông báo thời gian còn lại và tổng thời gian của bài hát hiện tại trong Foobar2000. (#6596)
- Kí hiệu command trên Mac (⌘) giờ đây đã được thông báo khi đọc văn bản với bất kì bộ đọc nào. (#8366)
- vai trò tùy chỉnh thông qua thuộc tính aria-roledescription hiện đã hỗ trợ trong tất cả các trình duyệt. (#8448)
- Các bảng chữ nổi mới: Czech 8 chấm, Central Kurdish, Esperanto, Hungarian, Thụy Điẻn máy tính 8 chấm. (#8226, #8437)
- Đã hỗ trợ tự động ngầm nhận biết các màn hình chữ nổi. (#1271)
 - Các màn hình ALVA, Baum/HumanWare/APH/Orbit, Eurobraille, Handy Tech, Hims, SuperBraille, HumanWare BrailleNote và Brailliant BI/B hiện đã được hỗ trợ.
 - Bạn có thể bật tính năng này bằng cách chọn tùy chọn tự động từ danh sách màn hình nổi trong hộp thoại chọn màn hình nổi của NVDA.
 - Vui lòng xem tài liệu để biết thêm chi tiết.
- Đã hỗ trợ cho nhiều tính năng nhập liệu mới được giới thiệu trong các bản phát hành gần đây của Windows 10. Các hỗ trợ bao gồm emoji panel - bản biểu tượng cảm xúc (Fall Creators Update), dictation (Fall Creators Update), hardware keyboard input suggestions (April 2018 Update), và cloud clipboard paste (October 2018 Update). (#7273)
- Nội dung được đánh dấu là đoạn trích dẫn bằng ARIA (role blockquote) giờ đây đã được hỗ trợ trong Mozilla Firefox 63. (#8577)

 
== Các thay đổi ==
- Danh sách các ngôn ngữ hiện hành trong hộp thoại thiết lập chung giờ đây được sắp xếp theo tên thay vì theo mã ISO 639. (#7284)
- Thêm thao tác mặc định cho alt shift tab và windows tab với tất cả màn hình chữ nổi được hỗ trợ của Freedom Scientific. (#7387)
- Với các màn hình ALVA BC680 và cổng chuyển đổi giao thức, giờ đây đã gán được các chức năng khác nhau cho smart pad trái và phải, các phím thumb và etouch. (#8230)
- Với các màn hình ALVA BC6, tổ hợp phím sp2+sp3 giờ đây sẽ thông báo ngày giờ hiện tại, trong khi sp1+sp2 là phím Windows. (#8230)
- Giờ đây, người dùng được hỏi một lần khi khởi động NVDA về việc gửi thông tin thống kê sử dụng cho NV Access khi kiểm tra cập nhật NVDA. (#8217)
- Khi kiểm tra cập nhật, nếu người dùng đồng ý gửi thông tin thống kê sử dụng cho NV Access, NVDA sẽ gửi tên driver của bộ đọc và màn hình chữ nổi hiện tại , nhằm hỗ trợ tốt hơn trong việc ưu tiên cho các cập nhật sắp tới của những driver này. (#8217)
- Đã cập nhật liblouis braille translator lên phiên bản 3.6.0. (#8365)
- Đã cập nhật đường dẫn chính xác cho bảng chữ nổi tiếng Nga tám chấm. (#8446)
- Đã cập nhật eSpeak-ng lên phiên bản 1.49.3dev commit 910f4c2 (#8561)


== Sửa lỗi ==
- Nhãn tiếp cận cho các điều khiển trong Google Chrome giờ đây đã sẵn sàng hơn khi thông báo trong chế độ duyệt khi chúng không được xuất hiện như nội dung  của chính nó. (#4773)
- Đã hỗ trợ đọc các thông báo trong Zoom. Ví dụ: đọc trạng thái bật / tắt âm thanh và khi có tin nhắn tới. (#7754)
- Chuyển ngữ cảnh trình bày của chữ nổi khi ở trong chế độ duyệt không còn làm đầu ra chữ nổi bị dừng, không đi theo con trỏ trong chế độ duyệt. (#7741)
- Các màn hình nổi ALVA BC680 không còn tình trạng liên tục không khởi động được. (#8106)
- Mặc định, các màn hình ALVA BC6 sẽ không còn gọi các phím mô phỏng hệ thống khi bấm các tổ hợp phím liên quan đến sp2+sp3 để gọi các chức năng nội bộ. (#8230)
- Bấm sp2 trên một màn hình ALVA BC6 để mô phỏng phím alt giờ đã hoạt động như quảng cáo. (#8360)
- NVDA không còn thông báo thông tin dư thừa cho các  thay đổi kiểu bàn phím. (#7383, #8419)
- Tính năng thông báo chuột giờ đã hoạt động chính xác hơn trong Notepad và các điều khiển nhập văn bản khác khi ở trong một tài liệu có nhiều hơn 65535 kí tự. (#8397)
- NVDA sẽ nhận dạng thêm các hộp thoại trong Windows 10 và các ứng dụng hiện đại khác. (#8405)
- Trên Windows 10 October 2018 Update và Server 2019 trở lên, NVDA không còn tình trạng lỗi không đi theo dấu nháy hệ thống khi một ứng dụng bị đóng băng hoặc bao phủ hệ thống bằng các sự kiện. (#7345, #8535)
- Giờ đây, người dùng  đã được thông báo khi có ý định đọc hay sao chép nội dung rỗng từ thanh trạng thái. (#7789)
- Sửa lỗi trạng thái "chưa chọn" trên các điều khiển không được thông báo bằng bộ đọc nếu nó đã được chọn trước đó. (#6946)
- Trong danh sách ngôn ngữ ở hộp thoại thiết lập chung, tên ngôn ngữ của tiếng Burmese đã hiển thị chính xác trên Windows 7. (#8544)
- Trong Microsoft Edge, NVDA sẽ đọc các thông báo  như trình bày kiểu đọc và tiến trình tải trang. (#8423)
- Khi điều hướng vào một danh sách trên web, NVDA sẽ thông báo nhãn của nó nếu được người thiết kế web cung cấp. (#7652)
- khi gán thủ công một thao tác cho chức năng của một màn hình nổi cụ thể, những thao tác này giờ đây sẽ luôn hiển thị rằng đang được gán cho màn hình đó. Trong khi trước đây, nó hiển thị rằng đã được gán cho màn hình đang được kết nối. (#8108)
- Đã hỗ trợ phiên bản 64-bit của Media Player Classic. (#6066)
- Vài cải tiến cho việc hỗ trợ chữ nổi trong Microsoft Word với UI Automation được bật:
 - Tương tự như các trường nhập liệu nhiều dòng khác, khi đứng ở đầu một tài liệu trong chữ nổi, màn hình giờ đây sẽ cuộn để kí tự đầu tiên của tài liệu sẽ ở trên cùng của màn hình. (#8406)
 - Giảm bớt các chi tiết trình bày trong cả bộ đọc và chữ nổi khi đứng ở một tài liệu Word. (#8407)
 - Cursor routing trong chữ nổi giờ đây đã làm việc chính xác khi ở trong danh sách trong tài liệu Word. (#7971)
 - Các danh sách có / không thứ tự mới được chèn vào trong tài liệu Word đã được thông báo chính xác trong chữ nổi và bộ đọc. (#7970)
- Trong Windows 10 1803 và cao hơn, giờ đây đã có thể cài đặt add-on nếu bật tính năng "Use Unicode UTF-8 for worldwide language support". (#8599)
- NVDA sẽ không còn làm cho iTunes 12.9 hay mới hơn rơi vào tình trạng hoàn toàn không tương tác được. (#8744)

 
== Các thay đổi cho nhà phát triển ==
Phần này không được dịch. Vui lòng xem bản tiếng Anh changes.t2t.

= 2018.2.1 =
Bản phát hành này bao gồm các cập nhật phiên dịch vì xảy ra lỗi từ việc gỡ bỏ một tính năng.


= 2018.2 =
Một số tính năng nổi bật trong bản phát hành này bao gồm hỗ trợ đọc bảng cho Kindle for PC, hỗ trợ màn hình nổi HumanWare BrailleNote Touch và BI14, cải thiện khả năng làm việc với các bộ đọc OneCore và Sapi5, các cải thiện cho Microsoft Outlook và hơn thế nữa.

== Các tính năng mới ==
- Các cột và dòng được trộn trong bảng giờ đây đã được thông báo trên cả bộ đọc và màn hình nổi. (#2642)
- Các lệnh điều hướng trong bảng của NVDA giờ đã được hỗ trợ cho Google Docs (khi bật chế độ màn hình nổi. (#7946)
- Có khả năng đọc và điều hướng trong các bảng  trên máy Kindle for PC. (#7977)
- Hỗ trợ màn hình nổi HumanWare BrailleNote touch và Brailliant BI 14 thông qua USB và bluetooth. (#6524)
- Với Windows 10 Fall Creators Update trở lên, NVDA đã có thể đọc thông báo từ các ứng dụng như Calculator và Windows Store. (#7984)
- Các bảng dịch chữ nổi mới: Lithuanian 8 chấm, Ukrainian, Mông cổ cấp 2\. (#7839)
- Đã thêm kịch bản thông báo các thông tin định dạng của văn bản tại vị trí con trỏ trên màn hình nổi. (#7106)
- Khi cập nhật  NVDA, đã có thể tạm hoãn việc cài đặt bản cập nhật để thực hiện ở một thời điểm khác. (#4263) 
- Có thêm các ngôn ngữ mới: Mông cổ, Đức Thụy Sỹ.
- Giờ bạn có thể bật các phím control, shift, alt, windows và NVDA từ bàn phím chữ nổi và kết hợp các phím bổ trợ này với kiểu nhập liệu chữ nổi (ví dụ: control+s). (#7306) 
 - Bạn có thể gán phím để bật / tắt hai phím bổ trợ bằng  các lệnh được tìm thấy trong phần Các phím mô phỏng bàn phím hệ thống  trong hộp thoại Quản lý thao tác.
- Hỗ trợ lại cho màn hình nổi Handy Tech Braillino và Modular (với firmware cũ). (#8016)
- Ngày và giờ cho các thiết bị được hỗ trợ  của Handy Tech (như Active Braille and Active Star) sẽ được đồng bộ bởi  NVDA khi bị ra khỏi đồng bộ quá 5 giây. (#8016)
- Có thể gán thao tác để tạm thời vô hiệu hóa tất cả các tác nhân hồ sơ cấu hình. (#4935)


== Các thay đổi ==

- Cột trạng thái trong hộp thoại quản lý Add-on đã được thay đổi để xác định Add-on đang bật hay tắt thay vì thông báo đang chạy hay đã tắt. (#7929)
- Đã cập nhật thư viện liblouis braille translator lên 3.5.0\. (#7839)
- Bảng chữ nổi Lithuanian đã được đổi tên thành Lithuanian 6 dot (6 chấm) để tránh rắc rối với bảng chữ nổi 8 chấm của ngôn ngữ này. (#7839)
- Bảng chữ nổi tiếng Pháp, Canada cấp 1 và 2 đã được gỡ bỏ. Thay vào đó là bản chữ nổi máy tính tiếng Pháp (unified) 6 chấm và chữ nổi tiếng Pháp cấp 2 sẽ được dùng. (#7839)
- Các nút secondary routing trên màn hình nổi Alva BC6, EuroBraille và Papenmeier giờ đây đã thông báo thông tin định dạng cho văn bản tại ô chữ nổi của nút đó. (#7106)
- Các bảng chữ nổi tắt sẽ tự trả về chữ đủ trong  những trường hợp không ở trong vùng soạn thảo (trường hợp không có con trỏ hay trong chế độ duyệt). (#7306)
- NVDA giờ đây đã ít phát ra tiếng beep trong phần lịch của Outlook. (#7949)
- Tất cả các thiết lập của NVDA giờ đây có thể tìm thấy ở một hộp thoại duy nhất trong trình đơn của NVDA -> Tùy Chọn -> Cấu hình, thay vì phải thiết lập thông qua nhiều hộp thoại. (#577)
- Bộ đọc mặc định khi chạy chương trình trên Windows 10 giờ đây là oneCore thay vì eSpeak. (#8176)


== Sửa lỗi ==

- NVDA không còn bị lỗi không đọc được tên các điều khiển tại vị trí con trỏ trong màn hình đăng nhập tài khoản Microsoft trong Settings sau khi nhập địa chỉ e-mail. (#7997)
- NVDA không còn bị lỗi không đọc được trang khi trở về trang trước trong Microsoft Edge. (#7997)
- NVDA không còn bị lỗi đọc kí tự cuối cùng ngoài ý muốn khi nhập mã pin ở màn hình đăng nhập của Windows 10 để mở khóa máy tính. (#7908)
- Các nhãn của hộp kiểm và nút radio trong Chrome và Firefox không còn bị đọc hai lần khi duyệt web bằng phím Tab hay các phím điều hướng nhanh ở chế độ duyệt. (#7960)
- aria-current với giá trị false sẽ được thông báo là "false" thay vì là "true". (#7892).
- Không còn lỗi không tải được các giọng đọc của Windows OneCore nếu đã gỡ bỏ các giọng đọc được cấu hình. (#7553)
- Việc thay đổi các giọng đọc trong bộ Windows OneCore giờ đây đã hoạt động nhanh hơn. (#7999)
- Đã sửa lỗi định dạng sai cho đầu ra của vài bảng chữ nổi, bao gồm dấu báo  hoa  trong bảng chữ nổi tắt 8 chấm tiếng Đan Mạch. (#7526, #7693)
- NVDA giờ đây đã có thể thông báo nhiều kiểu đánh dấu danh sách không thứ tự trong Microsoft Word. (#6778)
- Lệnh thông báo định dạng sẽ không di chuyển con trỏ ngoài ý muốn nữa. Vậy nên bấm lệnh này nhiều lần cũng không bị cho ra các kết quả khác nhau. (#7869)
- Đầu vào chữ nổi không còn cho phép bạn dùng chữ nổi tắt trong trường hợp không được hỗ trợ (Ví dụ: các từ đầy đủ sẽ không được gửi ra hệ thống khi ở ngoài nội dung văn bản hay trong chế độ duyệt. (#7306)
- Sửa lỗi kết nối không ổn định cho màn hình nổi Handy Tech Easy Braille và Braille Wave. (#8016)
- Từ Windows 8 trở lên, NVDA sẽ không còn đọc "không xác định" khi mở trình đơn các liên kết nhanh (Windows+X) và chọn các thành phần từ trình đơn này. (#8137)
- Vài thao tác cho các nút trên màn hình nổi của Hims đã hoạt động như được  quảng cáo trong hướng dẫn sử dụng. (#8096)
- NVDA sẽ cố gắng sửa lỗi hệ thống COM registration khiến cho các chương trình như Firefox và Internet Explorer trở nên không tiếp cận  và NVDA thông báo "không xác định". (#2807)
- Làm việc về lỗi trong Task Manager khiến NVDA không cho phép người dùng truy cập nội dung của vài chi tiết về quá trình vận hành. (#8147)
- Các giọng đọc mới chuẩn Sapi5 không còn bị chậm khi kết thúc quá trình đọc, điều đó giúp  cho việc điều hướng với các giọng đọc này trở nên hiệu quả hơn. (#8174)
- NVDA không còn thông báo (dấu LTR và RTL) qua màn hình nổi hay khi đọc kí tự khi truy cập biểu tượng đồng hồ trong các phiên bản Windows gần đây. (#5729)
- Tìm ra các phím cuộn trên màn hình Hims Smart Beetle lại một lần nữa  trở nên tin cậy. (#6086)
- Trong vài điều khiển văn bản, đặc biệt là trong các ứng dụng viết bằng Delphi, các thông tin được cung cấp liên quan đến chỉnh sửa và điều hướng giờ đây đã trở nên đáng tin cậy hơn.. (#636, #8102)
- Trong Windows 10 RS5, NVDA không còn thông báo thêm thông tin dư thừa khi chuyển cửa  sổ bằng alt+tab. (#8258)


== Các thay đổi cho nhà phát triển ==

Phần này không được dịch. Vui lòng xem bản tiếng Anh changes.t2t.

= 2018.1.1 =
Đây là bản phát hành đặc biệt  của NVDA, sửa một lỗi trong driver của bộ đọc OneCore, khiến cho nó bị đọc nhanh và cao hơn trong Windows 10 Redstone 4 (1803). (#8082) 
= 2018.1 =

Một số tính năng nổi bật trong bản phát hành này là hỗ trợ sơ đồ cho Microsoft word và PowerPoint, hỗ trợ màn hình nổi mới là Eurobraille và bộ chuyển giao thức Optelec, hỗ trợ thêm cho màn hình nổi của Hims và Optelec, cải thiện hoạt động với Mozilla Firefox 58 và bản cao hơn, và nhiều tính năng mới khác.

== Tính Năng Mới ==
- Đã có thể tương tác với các biểu đồ trong Microsoft Word và Microsoft PowerPoint, giống như hỗ trợ hiện tại cho Microsoft Excel. (#7046)
 - Ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Word, chuyển con trỏ đến biểu đồ nhúng và nhấn enter để tương tác. 
 - Khi sửa slide trong Microsoft PowerPoint: tab đến đối tượng biểu đồ, nhấn enter hoặc khoảng trắng để tương tác.
 - Nhấn esc để thoát.
- Ngôn ngữ mới: Kyrgyz.
- Hỗ trợ cho VitalSource Bookshelf. (#7155)
- Hỗ trợ cho bộ chuyển giao thức Optelec, một thiết bị cho phép sử dụng Braille Voyager và Satellite bằng giao thức giao tiếp ALVA BC6. (#6731)
- Có thể nhập liệu chữ nổi với màn hình ALVA 640 Comfort. (#7733) 
 - Chức năng nhập chữ liệu của NVDA đã có thể sử dụng với các màn hình BC6 chạy firmware 3.0.0 và cao hơn.
- Hỗ trợ cơ bản cho Google Sheets ở chế độ chữ nổi. (#7935)
- Hỗ trợ màn hình nổi Eurobraille Esys, Esytime và Iris. (#7488)


== Thay Đổi ==
- Đã thay thế các driver cho HIMS Braille Sense/Braille EDGE/Smart Beetle và Hims Sync thành một driver. Driver mới sẽ tự động kích hoạt cho người dùng driver syncBraille cũ. (#7459) 
 - Một vài phím như phím cuộn đã được gán lại theo quy tắc của màn hình nổi Hims. Xem tài liệu hướng dẫn để biết thêm chi tiết.
- Khi nhập liệu với bàn phím on-screen qua tương tác cảm ứng, bạn cần phải chạm đôi để kích hoạt phím như với các điều khiển. (#7309)
 - Để sử dụng chế độ nhập liệu cảm ứng như hiện tại với một chạm, hãy bật tùy chọn này trong hộp thoại thiết lập tương tác cảm ứng trong thực đơn tùy chọn.
- Không còn cần thiết chọn chế độ đưa con trỏ nổi theo focus hay con trỏ duyệt, vì mặc định nó sẽ tự động thay động.(#2385) 
 - Lưu ý, tự động chuyển qua chế độ đi theo con trỏ duyệt chỉ khi con trỏ duyệt kích hoạt hoặc dùng lệnh điều hướng đối tượng được thực hiện. Khi cuộn sẽ không tự động chuyển.


== Sửa Lỗi ==
- Các thông báo có thể duyệt khi nhấn NVDA+f hai lần đã không còn bị lỗi khi cài NVDA dưới đường dẫn có chứa ký tự ngoài mã ascii. (#7474)
- Focus trở về Spotify từ ứng dụng khác. (#7689)
- Ở Windows 10 Fall Creaters Update, NVDA hết bị lỗi cập nhật khi Controlled Folder Access được bật trong Windows Defender Security Center. (#7696)
- Nhận dạng phím cuộn trên màn hình Hims Smart Beetle isplays đã ổn định. (#6086)
- Cải thiện một phần nhỏ khả năng hoạt động với Firefox 58 trở lên khi tải tài liệu có nội dung lớn. (#7719)
- Trong Microsoft Outlook, không còn gặp lỗi khi đọc email có các bảng. (#6827)
- Các phím tắt màn hình nổi đã có thể mô phỏng với các phím bổ trợ của hệ thống. (#7783)
- Trong n Mozilla Firefox, chế độ duyệt đã hoạt động chính xác hơn khi có cửa sổ pop-up bở các tiện ích mở rộng, ví dụ như LastPass và bitwarden. (#7809)
- NVDA không còn treo mỗi khi thay đổi focus trong trường hợp Firefox hoặc Chrome không phản hồi/bị treo. (#7818)
- Ở các trình twitter như Chicken Nugget, NVDA không còn bỏ qua 20 ký tự cuối trong dãy 255 ký tự. (#7828)
- NVDA đã đọc các ký hiệu đúng với ngôn ngữ khi văn bản được chọn. (#7687)
- Ở những phiên bản gần đây của Office 365, có thể duyệt các biểu đồ với phím mũi tên. (#7046)
- In Ở phần xuất chữ nổi và giọng đọc, control states sẽ thông báo cùng thứ tự. (#7076)
- Trong những ứng dụng như Windows 10 Mail, NVDA đã đọc đúng ký tự được xóa khi nhấn xóa lùi. (#7456)
- Tất cả các phím trên màn hình the Hims Braille Sense Polaris đã hoạt động như mong muốn. (#7865)


== Các thay Đổi cho Nhà Phát Triển ==

Phần này không được dịch. Vui lòng xem bản tiếng Anh changes.t2t.


= 2017.4 =
Những tính năng mới và thay đổi nổi bật trong bản phát hành này bao gồm việc hỗ trợ web như chế duyệt cho các hộp thoại web ở mặc định, cải thiện khả năng thông báo nhãn của các nhóm trường ở chế độ duyệt, hỗ trợ những công nghệ mới trên Windows 10 như Windows Defender Application Guard và Windows 10 trên ARM64, và tự động thông báo hướng màn hình cũng như tình trạng pin.
Lưu ý, từ phiên bản NVDA này trở đi, sẽ không còn hỗ trợ cho Windows XP và Vista. Yêu cầu tối thiểu là từ Windows 7 SP1 trở lên.


== Tính Năng Mới ==
- Ở chế độ duyệt, đã có thể đi đến/bỏ qua đầu/cuối của các landmark với lệnh chuyển đến cuối hoặc đầu đối tượng chứa (phẩy hoặc shift+phẩy). (#5482)
- Lệnh di chuyển nhanh đến ô soạn thảo và các trường biểu mẫu trong Firefox, Chrome và Internet Explorer đã gồm luôn trường soạn thảo có thuộc tính, ví dụ như contentEdible. (#5534)
- Danh sách các thành phần trong các trình duyệt web đã có thể liệt kê các trường biểu mẫu và nút. (#588)
- Hỗ trợ bước đầu cho Windows 10 trên ARM64. (#7508)
- Bước đầu hỗ trợ đọc và tương tác với nội dung Toán của sách Kindle có định dạng tiếp cận. (#7536)
- Thêm hỗ trợ cho phần mềm đọc sách Azardi. (#5848)
- Đã thông báo thông tin phiên bản của add-on khi được cặp nhật. (#5324)
- Thêm tham số dòng lệnh để tạo bản NVDA chạy trực tiếp. (#6329)
- Hỗ trợ Microsoft Edge chạy với Windows Defender Application Guard trên Windows 10 Fall Creators Update. (#7600)
- Khi chạy trên laptop hay tablet, NVDA sẽ thông báo khi cắm hoặc gỡ dây sạc và khi thiết bị thay đổi hướng màn hình. (#4574, #4612)
- Thêm ngôn ngữ mới: Macedonian.
- Thêm bảng chữ nổi mới: Croatian cấp 1, tiếng Việt cấp 1. (#7518, #7565)
- Hỗ trợ màn hình nổi Actilino của hãng Handy Tech. (#7590)
- Hỗ trợ nhập liệu chữ nổi cho các màn hình nổi của Handy Tech. (#7590)


== Thay Đổi ==
- Hệ điều hành Windows yêu cầu tối thiểu hiện nay cho NVDA là Windows 7 Service Pack 1, hoặc Windows Server 2008 R2 Service Pack 1. (#7546)
- Nếu không đứng ở ứng dụng web, các hộp thoại web trong Firefox và Chrome sẽ mặc định ở chế độ duyệt. (#4493)
- Ở chế độ duyệt, NVDA không còn thông báo ra khỏi đối tượng chứa như danh sách và bảng biểu. Điều này giúp việc di chuyển ổn định hơn. (#2591)
- NVDA đã thông báo tên các nhóm biểu mẫu khi di chuyển nhanh đến đó trong chế độ duyệt với Firefox và Chrome. (#3321)
- Ở chế độ duyệt, phím tắt di chuyển nhanh đến đối tượng nhúng (o và shift+o) cũng sẽ bao gồm các đối tượng audio, video cũng như những thành phần là hộp thoại và ứng dụng có các vai trò aria. (#7239)
- Đã cập nhật lên bản Espeak-ng 1.49.2, sửa một số vấn đề của bản build trước đó. (#7385, #7583)
- Nếu thực hiện lệnh đọc thanh trạng thái 3 lần sẽ chép nội dung trên thanh lên bộ nhớ tạm. (#1785)
- Khi gán cử chỉ cho màn hình Baum, bạn có thể giới hạn mô đen màn hình nổi được sử dụng, ví dụ như VarioUltra hoặc Pronto). (#7517)
- Đã thay đổi phím tắt chuyển đến ô lọc của danh sách thành phần ở chế độ duyệt. (#7569)
- Lệnh gỡ gán (unbound) đã được thêm cho chế độ duyệt, giúp bật tắt phần tùy chỉnh tạm thời cho bảng biểu trình bày. Có thể tìm thấy trong phân loại chế độ duyệt của cửa sổ quản lý cử chỉ. (#7634)
- Nâng cấp trình dịch liblouis braille lêno 3.3.0. (#7565)
- Đã đổi phím tắt cho nút radio chọn biểu thức thông thường trong hộp thoại từ điển. (#6782)
- Tập tin từ điển giọng đọc đã được đặt phiên bản và chuyển qua thư mục 'speechDicts/voiceDicts.v1'. (#7592)
- Khi chạy NVDA từ trình khởi động, NVDA sẽ không lưu các thay đổi của tập tin được đánh phiên bản như cấu hình người dùng và từ điển giọng đọc. (#7688)
- Không còn hỗ trợ Braillino, Bookworm và Modular của Handy Tech dùng firmware cũ. Hãy cài driver Universial của Handy Tech và add-on của NVDA để tiếp tục sử dụng. (#7590)


== Sửa Lỗi ==
- Đã báo chữ nổi cho liên kết trong các ứng dụng như Microsoft Word. (#6780)
- NVDA không còn chậm khi mở nhiều tab với Firefox và Chrome. (#3138)
- Chức năng đưa con trỏ cho màn hình nổi MDV Lilli không còn lỗi đi trước một ô so với ô cần có focus. (#7469)
- Trong tài liệu MSHTML hoặc Internet Explorer, đã hỗ trợ thuộc tính bắt buộc (require) của HTML5 để báo trạng thái của các trường biểu mẫu.  (#7321)
- Màn hình nổi đã cặp nhật khi gõ ký tự Arobic với Wordpad theo lề trái. (#511)
- Những nhãn điều khiển tiếp cận trong Firefox đã đọc ở chế độ duyệt, cho dù nội dung của nó có bị ẩn đi. (#4773)
- Trên windows 10 Creaters Update, NVDA có thể truy xuất Firefox sau khi khởi động lại NVDA. (#7269)
- Khi khởi động lại NVDA mà Firefox đang có focus, nó vẫn sẽ nằm ở chế độ duyệt, cho dù bạn có thể phải nhấn alt+tab đi và trở lại cửa sổ Firefox. (#5758)
- Đã có thể truy cập nội dung toán trên Google Chrome cho dù không cần cài Firefox.  (#7308)
- Hệ điều hành hay những ứng dụng khác chạy ổn định hơn ngay sau khi cài đặt NVDA nhưng trước lúc khởi động lại. Điều này được so với những bản cài trước đây. (#7563)
- Khi sử dụng chức năng nhận dạng nội dung, NVDA sẽ thông báo lỗi nếu đối tượng điều hướng bị mất. (#7567)
- Chức năng cuộn trở lại của màn hình nổi Freedom Scientific đã hoạt động. (#7713)


== Các thay Đổi cho Nhà Phát Triển ==
- "scons tests" sẽ kiểm tra những chuỗi dịch có chú thích của người dịch không. Bạn có thể chạy độc lập với "scons checkPot". (#7492)
- Có mô đun extensionPoints mới cung cấp framework để bật khả năng mở rộng mã tại điểm cụ thể của mã. Điều này giúp các chương trình khác muốn đăng ký để được thông báo khi có action xuất hiện (extensionPoints.Action), để chỉnh sửa các loại dữ liệu (extensionPoints.Filter) hoặc tham gia quá trình quyết định một việc sẽ được hoàn tất (extensionPoints.Decider). (#3393)
- Đã có thể đăng ký thông báo khi thay đổi hồ sơ cấu hình với config.configProfileSwitched Action. (#3393)
- Các cư chỉ/phím tắt của màn hình nổi đã có thể mô phỏng các phím bổ trợ của hệ thống (như control và alt) mà không cần phải định nghĩa riêng. (#6213) 
 - Ví dụ: nếu trên màn hình nổi bạn có gán một phím với alt và một phím với mũi tên xuống, thì có thể nhấn alt+mũi tên xuống.
- Lớp braille.BrailleDisplayGesture đã có thêm thuộc tính model. Nếu khai báo, khi nhấn sẽ tạo ra thêm phím. Điều này giúp người dùng gán phím tắt cho cụ thể dòng màn hình nổi nào đó. 
 - Xem thêm driver baum để biết thêm tính năng này.
- NVDA hiện nay được biên dịch với Visual Studio 2017 và Windows 10 SDK. (#7568)


= 2017.3 =
Những chức năng nổi bật trong phiên bản này là cho phép nhập liệu chữ nổi viết tắt, hỗ trợ các giọng OneCore trên Windows 10, chức năng nhận dạng với Windows 10 OCR và rất nhiều những cải thiện quan trọng khác cho màn hình nổi và web.

== Tính Năng Mới ==
- Thêm một thiết lập chữ nổi mới là "Hiển thị thông điệp không xác định". (#6669)
- Thông báo thư được đánh cờ khi đứng trong danh sách thư của Microsoft Outlook. (#6374)
- Đã thông báo kiểu hình dạng khi chỉnh sửa slide trong Microsoft PowerPoint (ví dụ: hình tam giác, hình tròn, video, mũi tên) thay vì chỉ thông báo là "hình dạng". (#7111)
- Hỗ trợ đọc nội dung toán theo chuẩn MathML trong Google Chrome. (#7184)
- NVDA có thể đọc với các giọng OneCore của Windows 10 (còn được biết là giọng đọc di động). Bạn có thể chọn giọng OneCore Windows trong hộp thoại bộ đọc của NVDA. (#6159)
- Các tập tin cấu hình người dùng đã có thể lưu trong thư mục dữ liệu ứng dụng cục bộ. Chức năng này được bật trong phần thiết lập của registry. Xem phần "Các tham số hệ thống" trong tài liệu hướng dẫn sử dụng để biết thêm thông tin. (#6812)
- Đã thông báo giá trị các placeholder trong các trình duyệt web, cụ thể là hỗ trợ cho ARIA-placeholder.(#7004)
- Ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Word, có thể dùng phím di chuyển nhanh (w và shift+w) chuyển qua lại các lỗi chính tả. (#6942)
- Hỗ trợ tương tác với điều khiển chọn ngày trong hộp thoại lịch hẹn của Microsoft Outlook. (#7217)
- NVDA đã đọc gợi ý đang chọn ở trường To/CC của Windows 10 Mail và ô tìm kiếm của cửa sổ Settings trên Windows 10. (#6241)
- Sẽ phát âm thanh khi có gợi ý ở các ô tìm kiếm trên Windows 10, ví dụ như ô tìm kiếm ở màn hình khởi động, cửa sổ settings, To/CC của Windows Mail. (#6241)
- Tự động đọc các thông báo của bản Skype Business cho desktop khi có người bắt đầu cuộc trò chuyện với bạn. (#7281)
- Tự động thông báo tin nhắn mới khi đứng tại cửa sổ trò chuyện của bản Skype for Business. (#7286)
- Tự động đọc thông báo trong Microsoft Edge, ví dụ khi có một download được bắt đầu. (#7281)
- Có thể nhập liệu cả chữ nổi đầy đủ và viết tắt với bàn phím chữ nổi trên màn hình nổi. Xem phần nhập liệu chữ nổi trong tài liệu hướng dẫn sử dụng để biết thêm thông tin. (#2439)
- Bạn có thể nhập ký tự chữ nổi Unicode với bàn phím chữ nổi trên màn hình nổi bằng cách chọn Chữ nổi Unicode ở mục bảng đầu vào trong hộp thoại thiết lập màn hình nổi. (#6449)
- Hỗ trợ màn hình nổi SuperBraille được sử dụng nhiều ở Đài Loan. (#7352)
- Các bảng chuyển đổi chữ nổi mới: Danish 8 dot computer braille, Lithuanian, Persian 8 dot computer braille, Persian grade 1, Slovenian 8 dot computer braille. (#6188, #6550, #6773, #7367)
- Cập nhật bảng chuyển đổi chữ nổi cho tiếng Anh Mỹ, bao gồm những dấu bullet, ký hiệu euro và những ký tự có dấu. (#6836)
- Hiện NVDA có thể sử dụng chức năng OCR của Windows 10 để nhận dạng văn bản từ hình ảnh và những ứng dụng không tiếp cận. (#7361)
 - Có thể chọn ngôn ngữ từ hộp thoại Windows 10 OCR trong thực đơn tùy chọn của NVDA. 
 - Nhấn NVDA+r để nhận dạng đối tượng điều hướng hiện tại.
  - Xem thêm phần Nhận Dạng Nội Dung trong tài liệu hướng dẫn sử dụng để biết thêm thông tin.
  - Bạn có thể chọn thông tin ngữ cảnh nào được hiển thị trên màn hình nổi khi đối tượng có focus trong mục "Trình bày ngữ cảnh tại focus" trong hộp thoại thiết lập màn hình nổi. (#217)
 - Ví dụ: hai tùy chọn "Điền trên màn hình khi thay đổi ngữ cảnh" và "Chỉ khi cuộn lại" sẽ hoạt động tốt với loại danh sách và thực đơn, vì vị trí các mục sẽ không thay đổi liên tục trên màn hình.
  - Xem phần "Trình bày ngữ cảnh tại focus" trong tài liệu hướng dẫn sử dụng để biết thêm thông tin.
- Trong Firefox và Chrome, NVDA đã hỗ trợ những đối tượng lưới động phức tạp, ví dụ như các bảng tính mà nó chỉ tải hoặc hiển thị một vài nội dung.  Cụ thể, là hỗ trợ những thuộc tính aria giới thiệu trong phiên bản 1.1 như aria-rowcount, aria-colcount, aria-rowindex và aria-colindex. (#7410)


== Thay Đổi ==
- Thêm thao tác chưa được gán phím (script_restart) để giúp khởi động lại NVDA nhanh hơn. Xem trong phần các lệnh tổng hợp trong hộp thoại quản lý thao tác của NVDA. (#6396)
- Có thể cài đặt kiểu bàn phím ở cửa sổ chào mừng của NVDA. (#6863)
  - Thêm nhiều định nghĩa viết tắt cho các cột mốc và trạng thái của điều khiển. Xem phần viết tắt cho các cột mốc và trạng thái điều khiển trong tài liệu hướng dẫn sử dụng để biết đầy đủ danh sách các định nghĩa viết tắt này. (#7188)
- Đã cập nhật Espeak-ng lên phiên bản 1.49.1 (#7280).
- Đã sắp xếp các mục trong danh sách bảng đầu vào và đầu ra của hộp thoại thiết lập màn hình nổi theo an-pha-bê. (#6113)
- Cập nhật trình chuyển dịch chữ nổi liblouis lên bản  3.2.0. (#6935)
- Bảng mã chữ nổi cấp 1 UEBC tiếng Anh được chọn là bảng mã mặc định. (#6952)
- Mặc định, NVDA chỉ hiển thị những phần thông tin ngữ cảnh mà nó thay đổi trên màn hình nổi mỗi khi một đối tượng có focus. (#217)
 - Trước đây, nó sẽ hiển thị tất cả thông tin ngữ cảnh cho dù bạn đã thấy thông tin ngữ cảnh đó rồi.
 - Bạn có thể chọn hiển thị theo cách cũ bằng cách chọn "Luôn luôn điền trên màn hình" ở tùy chọn "Trình bày ngữ cảnh tại focus" trong hộp thoại thiết lập màn hình nổi.
- Có thể chọn hình dạng con trỏ nổi khi chọn chế độ đi theo focus hoặc con trỏ duyệt. (#7112)
 - Cập nhật logo của NVDA. Logo được cập nhật theo kiểu pha trộn giữa các ký tự NVDA với chữ màu trắng trên nền màu tía. Điều này sẽ giúp có thể nhìn thấy logo NVDA trên những màu nền khác. Sử dụng cùng màu tía với logo của NV Access. (#7446)


== Sửa Lỗi ==
- Đối với các thành phần div có thể soạn thảo trong Chrome, khi ở chế độ duyệt, nhãn không còn thông báo giống với giá trị của nó. (#7153)
- Ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Word, nhấn phím End trong một văn bản trống sẽ không còn bị lỗi runtime. (#7009)
- Đã hỗ trợ chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Edge khi tài liệu được cung cấp vai trò ARIA cụ thể cho nó. (#6998)
- Ở chế độ duyệt, nhấn shift+end đã có thể chọn hoặc bỏ chọn về cuối dòng, ngay cả khi dấu nháy nằm tại ký tự cuối của dòng đó. (#7157)
- Nếu hộp thoại có thanh tiến trình, văn bản hộp thoại sẽ được cập nhật khi thanh tiến trình thay đổi. Ví dụ, thời gian còn lại trong hộp thoại tải NVDA đã có thể đọc bằng văn bản với NVDA. (#6862)
- NVDA sẽ thông báo các thay đổi vùng chọn trong một số hộp xổ của Windows 10, ví dụ như hộp xổ Autoplay trong phần Settings. (#6337).
- Không còn thông báo thông tin không tồn tại ở hộp thoại tạo lịch hẹn hay cuộc họp của Microsoft Outlook. (#7216)
- Bíp ở các hộp thoại có thanh tiến trình không xác định như hộp thoại kiểm tra bản cập nhật, khi thiết lập cho thanh tiến trình bao gồm lựa chọn bíp. (#6759)
- Đã đọc lại các ô khi di chuyển bằng mũi tên trong bảng tính với Microsoft Excel 2003 và 2007. (#8243)
- Chế độ duyệt đã được tự động bật khi đọc email trong Windows 10 Mail với bản Windows 10 creator update và những bản sau này. (#7289)
- Ở hầu hết màn hình nổi có bàn phím chữ nổi, chấm 7 sẽ dùng để xóa ký tự hoặc ô được nhập trước đó và chấm 8 là phím enter. (#6054)
- Khi đứng ở văn bản có thể chỉnh sửa và di chuyển dấu nháy, ví dụ với phím mũi tên hoặc xóa lùi, NVDA đã đọc chính xác hơn, đặc biệt là trong Google Chrome và những ứng dụng đầu cuối. (#6424)
- Đã đọc nội dung trong cửa sổ viết chữ ký của Microsoft Outlook 2016. (#7253)
- NVDA không còn treo khi di chuyển bảng biểu ở các ứng dụng Java Swing. (#6992)
- NVDA không còn đọc thông báo toast nhiều lần trên Windows 10 Creators Update. (#7128)
- Trên Windows 10, NVDA không còn đọc nội dung tìm kiếm sau khi nhấn Enter để đóng start menu. (#7370)
- Di chuyển nhanh giữa các tiêu đề trong Microsoft Edge đã cải thiện nhanh hơn rất nhiều. (#7343)
- NVDA không còn bỏ qua nhiều phần lớn nội dung trang web trên một số website như giao diện Wordpress 2015 khi ở chế độ duyệt của Microsoft Edge. (#7143)
- Trong Microsoft Edge, các cột mốc (landmarks) đã được bản địa hóa, thay vì dùng tiếng Anh như thường lệ. (#7328)
- Con trỏ Braille đã đi theo vùng chọn khi vùng chọn lớn hơn màn hình nổi.  Ví dụ, khi nhấn shift+mũi tên xuống để chọn nhiều dòng, màn hình nổi sẽ hiển thị dòng chọn cuối cùng. (#5770)
- Ở Firefox, NVDA không còn đọc "Section" nhiều lần khi mở mục chi tiết của bài viết trên trang Twitter. (#5741)
- Các lệnh di chuyển trong bảng không có hiệu lực với loại bảng bố cục nếu không bật tùy chọn thông báo bảng bố cục. (#7382)
- Trong Firefox và Chrome, khi thực hiện lệnh di chuyển trong bảng ở chế độ duyệt sẽ bỏ qua những ô có thuộc tính ẩn. (#6652, #5655)


== Các thay Đổi cho Nhà Phát Triển ==
- Đã thêm mili giây vào phần đánh dấu thời gian trong  bản ghi. (#7163)
- NVDA phải được build với Visual Studio Community 2015. Đã ngưng hỗ trợ cho bộ Visual Studio Express. (#7110)
 - Cũng yêu cầu cài đặt thêm bộ Windows 10 Tools và SDK; có thể chọn khi cài đặt Visual Studio.
 - Vui lòng xem phần hướng dẫn cài đặt các gói phụ thuộc để biết thêm thông tin.
 - Hỗ trợ những trình nhận dạng nội dung như công cụ mô tả ảnh và OCR, đã có thể dễ dàng thực hiện với gói ContentRecog mới. (#7361)
- Gói Python json đã được biên dịch chung với bản chạy NVDA. (#3050)


= 2017.2 =
Một số điểm nổi bật trong bản phát hành này bao gồm: hỗ trợ đầy đủ các chế độ giảm âm lượng ứng dụng khác trên Windows 10 Creators Update; Sửa một số  vấn đề khi chọn ở chế độ duyệt ví dụ như chọn tất cả; cải thiện khả năng làm việc với  Microsoft Edge; và cải thiện nhiều hỗ trợ cho web ví dụ như nhận biết các thành phần sử dụng ARIA-current.

== Tính Năng Mới ==
- Có thể thông báo thông tin đường viền ô trong Microsoft Excel với phím tắt NVDA+f. (#3044)
- NVDA đã có thể nhận biết các thành phần được đánh dấu với current trên các trình duyệt web (cụ thể là khi dùng thuộc tính ARIA-current). (#6358)
- Hỗ trợ tự động chuyển ngôn ngữ cho Microsoft Edge. (#6852)
- Hỗ trợ chương trình máy tính trên Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB (Long-Term Servicing Branch) và bản máy chủ. (#6914)
- Thực hiện lệnh đọc dòng hiện tại nhanh ba lần sẽ đánh vần dòng đó với phần mô tả ký tự. (#6893)
- Thêm ngôn ngữ Burmese
- Đã đọc ký hiệu phân số và dấu mũi tên lên xuống mã unicode. (#3805)


== Các Thay Đổi ==
- Khi di chuyển với chế độ duyệt đơn giản trong những ứng dụng sử dụng UI Automation, nhiều đối tượng chứa không liên quan  sẽ được bỏ qua. Điều này sẽ giúp việc di chuyển dễ dàng hơn. (#6948, #6950) 


== Sửa Lỗi ==
- Đã có thể kích hoạt các mục trong thực đơn trên web khi ở chế độ duyệt. (#6735)
- Nhấn escape khi focus đang ở cửa sổ xác nhận xóa hồ sơ cấu hình sẽ thoát khỏi hộp thoại. (#6851)
- Sửa lỗi treo khi bật chức năng multi-process (đa xử lý) trong Mozilla Firefox và các ứng dụng Gecko khác. (#6885)
- Ở chế độ xem màn hình (screen reivew), việc thông báo màu nền đã chính xác hơn khi nội dung được trình bày trên nền trong suốt. (#6467) 
- Cải thiện tính năng hỗ trợ các mô tả điều khiển trên trang web cho Internet Explorer 11, (bao gồm hỗ trợ aria-describedby trong iframes và khi có nhiều ID được khai báo). (#5784)
- Tất cả chức năng giảm âm lượng ứng dụng khác như giảm khi đọc và phát âm thanh, không giảm và luôn luôn giảm đã hoạt động lại với bản cập nhật Windows 10 Creator, giống như ở các bản phát hành trước của Windows. (#6933)
- NVDA đã có thể di chuyển đến và đọc các điều khiển UIA không có khai báo phím tắt. (#6779)
- Không còn thêm vào hai khoảng trắng trong phần thông tin phím tắt cho các điều khiển UIA. (#6790)
- Một số tổ hợp phím trên màn hình nổi HIMS như (space+chấm 4), không còn tình trạng thỉnh thoảng ngưng hoạt động. (#3157)
- Sửa lỗi mở cổng serial trên các máy dùng ngôn ngữ không phải là tiếng Anh. Điều này, đã gây ra một số trường hợp không thể kết nối màn hình nổi. (#6845)
- Giảm nguy cơ hỏng tập tin cấu hình khi tắt máy. Hiện nay, tập tin cấu hình sẽ được lưu trong tập tin tạm trước khi được lưu vào tập tin cấu hình chính. (#3165)
- Sử dụng đúng ngôn ngữ khi thực hiện nhanh hai lần lệnh đọc dòng hiện tại để đánh vần. (#6726)
- Di chuyển dòng trong Microsoft Edge trên Windows 10 Creaters Update đã nhanh hơn 3 lần (#6994)
- NVDA không còn thông báo "Web Runtime Grouping" khi focus đứng ở tài liệu Microsoft Edge trên Windows 10 Creaters Update. (#6948)
- Đã hỗ trợ tất cả phiên bản hiện có của SecureCRT. (#6302)
- Adobe Acrobat Reader không còn bị treo trong một số tài liệu PDF (cụ thể là những tài liệu có thuộc tính ActualText trống). (#7021, #7034)
- Khi ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Edge, nhấn t và shift+t để duyệt bảng sẽ không còn bỏ qua các loại bảng tương tác (ARIA rid). (#6977)
- Ở chế độ duyệt, Sau khi chọn, nhấn shift+home sẽ bỏ chọn và về đầu dòng. (#5746)
- Khi ở chế độ duyệt, nhấn (control+a) đã có thể chọn tất cả, mà không cần dấu nháy phải đứng ở đầu văn bản. (#6909)
- Sửa một số lỗi hiếm gặp khi chọn ở chế độ duyệt. (#7131)


== Các Thay Đổi Cho Nhà Phát Triển ==
- Các tham số dòng lệnh đã được xử lý bởi mô-đun argparser của Python, thay vì là optparser. Điều này sẽ cho phép xử lý riêng các tùy chọn như -r và -q. (#6865)
- core.callLater sẽ ở hàng chờ hàm gọi đến hàng chờ chính của NVDA sau một khoảng độ trễ được chỉ định, thay vì can thiệp phần lõi và thực thi trực tiếp.  Điều này sẽ giúp ngưng sự cố đóng băng hoặc treo sau khi phần lõi xử lý hàm gọi, ví dụ như khi gọi hàm giữa chừng để hiển thị hộp thông báo. (#6797) 
- Thuộc tính InputGesture.identifiers đã được thay đổi, vì vậy nó sẽ không còn được normalize. (#6945)
 - Các lớp con (subclasses) không còn cần phải normalize các indentifier trước khi trả về lại từ thuộc tính này. .
  - Nếu muốn normalize các identifier, bây giờ bạn có thể dùng thuộc tính InputGesture.normalizedIdentifiers. Nó sẽ normalize các identifiers được trả về bởi thuộc tính identifiers.
- Thuộc tính InputGesture.logIdentifier hiện nay sẽ không được khuyến khích tiếp tục sử dụng. Thay vào đó, có thể dùng InputGesture.identifiers[0]. (#6945)
- Bỏ các mã không còn được khuyến khích sử dụng:
 - Các hằng số `speech.REASON_*`, thay vào đó, sẽ sử dụng `controlTypes.REASON_*`. (#6846)
 - `i18nName` để thiết lập bộ đọc. Sẽ thay thế bằng `displayName` và `displayNameWithAccelerator`. (#6846, #5185)
 - `config.validateConfig`. (#6846, #667)
 - `config.save`: thay vào đó, hãy sử dụng `config.conf.save`. (#6846, #667)
 - Danh sách thành phần hoàn tất trong thực đơn ngữ cảnh autocomplete (tự động hoàn tất) của PythonConsole sẽ không còn hiển thị phần đường dẫn đối tượng đứng phía trước ký hiệu cuối được hoàn tất. (#7023)
 - Hiện đã có framework kiểm thử theo đơn vị cho NVDA. (#7026)
 - Cấu trúc cơ sở hạ tầng và phần kiểm thử theo đơn vị nằm tại thư mục tests/unit. Xem docstring trong  tập tin tests\unit\__init__.py để biết thêm thông tin.
 - Bạn có thể chạy phần kiểm thử với "scons tests". Hãy xem phần "Running Tests" trong tập tin  readme.md để biết thêm thông tin.
 - Nếu muốn gửi pull request cho NVDA, bạn cần phải chạy thành công phần kiểm thử.
 

= 2017.1 =
Một số tính năng mới nổi bật trong phiên bản này bao ;gồm thông báo các vùng và cột nội dung trong Microsoft Word; hỗ trợ di chuyển, ghi chú lại và đọc sách với máy Kindle bản PC; và những cải thiện cho Microsoft Edge.

== Tính Năng Mới ==
- Đã có thể thông báo các kiểu số phân vùng và ngắt vùng trong Microsoft Word . Chức năng này được bật ở tùy chọn "Báo số trang" trong hộp thoại định dạng tài liệu. (#5946)
- Đã có thể thông báo các cột nội dung trong Microsoft Word . Chức năng này được bật ở tùy chọn "Báo số trang" trong hộp thoại định dạng tài liệu. (#5946)
- Đã hỗ trợ tự chuyển đổi ngôn ngữ trong Wordpad. (#6555)
- Lệnh tìm kiếm của NVDA (NVDA+control+f) đã được hỗ trợ trong chế độ duyệt (Browse mode) cho Microsoft Edge. (#6580)
- Lệnh di chuyển nhanh ở chế độ duyệt đến các nút (b và shift+b) đã được hỗ trợ trong  Microsoft Edge. (#6577)
- Thiết lập cho tiêu đề cột và dòng vẫn được nhớ khi copy bảng tính từ Microsoft Excel. (#6628)
- Hỗ trợ đọc và duyệt sách trên máy Kindle phiên bản PC 1.19, sử dụng được các mục như liên kết, phần chú thích chân, hình ảnh, nội dung in đậm và ghi chú của người dùng. Vui lòng xem thêm phần Kindle cho PC trong tài liệu hướng dẫn sử dụng của NVDA. (#6247, #6638)
- Di chuyển bảng ở chế độ duyệt đã được hỗ trợ trong Microsoft Edge. (#6594)
- Trong Microsoft Excel, phím lệnh thông báo vị trí con trỏ duyệt (Máy bàn: NVDA+delete bàn phím số, Sách tay: NVDA+Delete) đã đọc tên của bảng tính và vị trí ô. (#6613)
- Thêm tùy chọn khởi động lại với chế độ bản ghi dò lỗi trong hộp thoại thoát NVDA. (#6689)


== Thay Đổi ==
- Tốc độ nháy tối thiểu của con trỏ màn hình nổi là 200ms. Những cấu hình trước đây có giá trị thấp hơn sẽ tự động được thiết lập về 200ms. (#6470)
- Thêm một tùy chỉnh hộp kiểm trong hộp thoại thiết lập màn hình nổi cho phép tắt/bật nhấp nháy con trỏ màn hình nổi.  Trước đây, nhập giá trị 0 để tắt. (#6470)
- Cập nhật eSpeak NG (Bản phát triển e095f008, 10 tháng 1, 2017). (#6717)
- Do những thay đổi trong bản cập nhật của windows 10 Creators, chế độ "Luôn luôn giảm âm" đã được gỡ bỏ khỏi phần cấu hình giảm âm lượng các ứng dụng khác. Chế độ này vẫn được giữ cho bản Windows 10 cũ. (#6684)
- Do những thay đổi trong bản cập nhật của windows 10 Creators, chế độ giảm âm khi NVDA đọc và phát âm thanh sẽ không còn đảm bảo giảm âm thanh ứng dụng khác ngay khi NVDA đọc. Những thay đổi này không ảnh hưởng  đến bản Windows 10 cũ. (#6684)


== Sửa Lỗi ==
- Sửa lỗi treo khi di chuyển giữa các đoạn trong một văn bản lớn ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Word (#6368)
- Các bảng được copy từ Microsoft Excel qua Microsoft Word không còn được xem như bảng bố cục  vì vậy sẽ không bị bỏ qua (#5927)
- Khi nhập liệu trong Microsoft Excel ở chế độ bảo vệ, NVDA sẽ phát âm thanh thay vì đọc các ký tự được gõ (#6570)
- Khi nhấn Escape trong Microsoft Excel sẽ không chuyển sang chế độ duyệt, trừ phi người dùng chuyển sang chế độ duyệt trước đó với NVDA+space và sau đó ở trong chế độ focus bằng cách nhấn Enter trong ô biểu mẫu. (#6569) 
- NVDA không còn treo trong các bảng tính  của Microsoft Excel khi toàn bộ  một dòng hoặc  cột được kết hợp (merged) (#6216)
- Thông báo chính xác hơn các văn bản bị cắt hoặc bị tràn trong các ô của Microsoft Excel. (#6472)
- NVDA sẽ thông báo các hộp kiểm có thuộc tính Chỉ đọc (Read-only). (#6563)
- Trình chạy NVDA sẽ không hiển thị hộp thoại cảnh báo khi nó không thể phát âm thanh logo do thiếu thiết bị âm thanh. (#6289)
- Các điều khiển không hoạt động trong ribbon của Microsoft Excel sẽ được thông báo. (#6430)
- NVDA không còn thông báo "vùng (pane)" khi thu nhỏ cửa sổ. (#6671)
- Đã đọc ký tự khi gõ trong các ứng dụng của nền Windows Universal (UWP), (bao gồm Microsoft Edge) trong bản cập nhật  Windows 10 Creators. (#6017)
- Chức năng di chuyển theo chuột đã hoạt động trong mọi cửa sổ của máy tính có nhiều màn hình. (#6598)
- NVDA không còn bị lỗi sau khi đóng chương trình Windows Media Player trong khi focus nằm tại điều khiển thanh trượt. (#5467)


== Các thay đổi cho nhà phát triển ==
- Các tập tin cấu hình cũng như hồ sơ cá nhân đều tự động được nâng cấp để đáp ứng những yêu cầu chỉnh sửa schema. Nếu có lỗi khi nâng cấp, hộp thoại thông báo sẽ xuất hiện, cấu hình sẽ được khởi tạo lại và tập tin cấu hình cũ được lưu trong bản ghi log của NVDA tại cấp 'Info'. (#6470)


= 2016.4 =
Các điểm chính trong phiên bản này bao gồm, cải thiện Microsoft Edge; chế độ duyệt trong   ứng dụng Windows 10 Mail; và những cập nhật quan trọng cho các hộp thoại của NVDA.
 
== Các Tính Năng Mới ==
- NVDA sẽ xác định thụt đầu dòng bằng âm thanh. Có thể cấu hình trong hộp combo "Báo thụt đầu dòng" trong hộp thoại tùy chọn định dạng tài liệu của NVDA. (#5906)
- Hỗ trợ màn hình nổi Orbit Reader 20. (#6007)
- Thêm tùy chọn mở cửa sổ speech viewer khi khởi động. Có thể bật trong cửa sổ speech viewer. (#5050)
- Khi mở lại cửa sổ speech viewer, các vị trí và kích cỡ sẽ được phục hồi. (#5050)
- Các trường tham khảo trong Microsoft Word sẽ được xem như các liên kết. Nó sẽ được thông báo là liên kết và có thể kích hoạt. (#5050)
- Hỗ trợ  màn hình nổi Baum SuperVario2, Baum Vario 340 và HumanWare Brailliant2. (#6116)
- Hỗ trợ cơ bản cho việc cập nhật Anniversary update của Microsoft Edge. (#6271)
- Chế độ duyệt sẽ được sử dụng khi đọc email với Windows 10 mail. (#6271)
- Thêm ngôn ngữ mới: Lithuanian.


== Các thay đổi ==
- Cập nhật trình chuyển đổi chữ nổi  liblouis lên 3.0.0. Bản này gồm nhiều cập nhật quan trọng cho Unified English Braille. (#6109, #4194, #6220, #6140)
- Trong trình quản lý Add-ons, nút tắt và bật đã có phím tắt lần lượt là (alt+d và alt+e). (#6388)
- Nhiều vấn đề canh chỉnh và dấu chân trong các hộp thoại của NVDA đã được chỉnh sửa. (#6317, #5548, #6342, #6343, #6349)
- Hộp thoại định dạng tài liệu đã được điều chỉnh để có thể cuộn nội dung. (#6348)
- Điều chỉnh lại bố cục hộp thoại phát âm ký hiệu để danh sách ký hiệu sẽ sử dụng toàn bộ độ rộng của hộp thoại. (#6101)
- Ở chế độ duyệt trong các trình duyệt web, các phím lệnh di chuyển nhanh đến các trường soạn thảo (e and shift+e) và biểu mẫu (f and shift+f) có thể dùng để di chuyển đến các trường soạn thảo có thuộc tính Chỉ đọc (Read-only). (#4164)
- Ở các thiết lập định dạng tài liệu NVDA, "Thông báo thay đổi định dạng sau con trỏ" được đổi tên thành "Báo thay đổi định dạng sau con trỏ", vì nó ảnh hưởng đến phần chữ nổi và đọc. (#6336)
- Điều chỉnh lại màn hình "hộp thoại chào mừng" của NVDA. (#6350)
- Nút "Đồng ý" và "Hủy" của các hộp thoại NVDA đều được canh phải trên các hộp thoại. (#6333)
- Các điều khiển spin được dùng cho các trường nhập số như "Phần trăm thay đổi độ cao chữ hoa" trong hộp thoại thiết lập giọng đọc. Bạn có thể nhập giá trị hoặc dùng mũi tên lên/xuống để điều chỉnh. (#6099)
- Cách thông báo các IFrames (nội dung nhúng trong một tài liệu) đã thống nhất và ổn định trên các trình duyệt web khác nhau. IFrames được thông báo là "frame" trong Firefox. (#6047)


== Đã sửa các lỗi ==
- Sửa lỗi hiếm gặp khi tắt NVDA trong khi speech viewer mở. (#5050)
- Các Image maps chạy đúng trong Mozilla Firefox. (#6051)
- Khi đứng trong hộp thoại Từ điển, nhấn Enter sẽ lưu lại các thay đổi và đóng hộp thoại. Trước đây, khi nhấn Enter sẽ không có tác dụng. (#6206)
- Các thông điệp sẽ hiển thị dạng chữ nổi khi thay đổi chế độ nhập cho một phương thức nhập (native input/alphanumeric, full shaped/half shaped, etc.). (#5892, #5893)
- Khi tắt và bật một add-on ngay sau đó hoặc ngược lại, trạng thái của add-on sẽ được hiển thị đúng. (#6299)
- Khi sử dụng Microsoft Word, có thể đọc được ô số trang trong các tiêu đề. (#6004)
- Chuột có thể di chuyển focus giữa danh sách ký hiệu và ô soạn thảo trong hộp thoại phát âm ký hiệu. (#6312)
- Ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Word, đã sửa lỗi không hiển thị danh sách các thành phần khi trong tài liệu có liên kết không hợp lệ. (#5886)
- Sau khi tắt từ thanh tác vụ hoặc bằng phím tắt Alt+F4, hộp kiểm speech viewer trong thực đơn NVDA sẽ hiển thị rõ ràng cửa sổ của nó. (#6340)
- Lệnh tải lại plugin không còn gặp lỗi đối với hồ sơ cấu hình, cho các tài liệu mới trong trình duyệt web và screen review. (#2892, #5380)
- Trong danh sách ngôn ngữ của hộp thoại thiết lập chung, các ngôn ngữ như Aragonese đã được hiển thị đúng. (#6259)
- Các phím của bàn phím hệ thống mô phỏng như một nút trên màn hình nổi mô phỏng chức năng phím Tab, đã có trong phần cấu hình ngôn ngữ NVDA trong hộp thoại thao tác nhập và giúp đỡ nhập. Trước đây, nó chỉ có trong tiếng Anh. (#6212)
- Thay đổi ngôn ngữ NVDA (từ hộp thoại thiết lập chung) sẽ không có tác dụng đến khi NVDA được khởi động lại. (#4561)
- Không thể để ô pattern trống khi tạo một mục mới trong từ điển phát âm. (#6412)
- Sửa lỗi hiếm gặp khi quét tìm cổng serial trên một số hệ thống đã không thể sử dụng một số drivers của màn hình nổi. (#6462)
- Trong Microsoft Word, đã đọc các dấu bullet số khi di chuyển theo ô trong bảng biểu. (#6446)
- Đã có thể gán các thao tác lệnh cho driver màn hình nổi Handy Tech trong hộp thoại thao tác nhập của NVDA. (#6461)
- Trong Microsoft Excel, nhấn Enter khi duyệt các bảng tính, NVDA sẽ thông báo chính xác dòng kế. (#6500)
- iTunes sẽ không còn thỉnh thoảng treo khi dùng chế độ duyệt trong iTunes Store, Apple Music vvv. (#6502)
- Sửa lỗi sung đột và treo trong các ứng dụng 64-bit trên nền Chrome và Mozilla. (#6497)
- Khi bật multi-process trong Firefox, các ô soạn thảo và chế độ duyệt đã hoạt động tốt. (#6380)


== Các thay đổi cho nhà phát triển ==
Phần này không được dịch. Vui lòng xem phiên bản tiếng Anh changes.t2t


= 2016.3 =
Các cải tiến của bản phát hành này bao gồm khả năng vô hiệu hóa một Add-on riêng biệt, hỗ trợ dùng biểu mẫu trong Microsoft Excel; cải thiện khả năng đọc màu; các chỉnh sửa / cải tiến cho vài loại màn hình chữ nổi và cải tiến trong việc hỗ trợ cho Microsoft Word.

== Các tính năng mới ==
- Chế độ duyệt giờ đây đã có thể đọc các tài liệu PDF trong Microsoft Edge trên Windows 10 Anniversary Update. (#5740)
- Strikethrough và double-strikethrough hiện đã được thông báo một cách hợp lý trong Microsoft Word. (5800)
- Trong Microsoft Word, tên của bảng đã được đọc nếu được khai báo trước đó. Nếu có phần mô tả, người dùng có thể xem bằng lệnh dọc mô tả (NVDA+D) trong chế độ duyệt. (#5943)
- Trong Microsoft Word, NVDA đã thông báo các thông tin vị trí con trỏ khi di chuyển từng đoạn bằng lệnh Alt+ Shift+ mũi tên xuống và Alt+ Shift+ mũi tên lên. (#5945)
- Trong Microsoft Word, khoảng cách dòng đã được đọc thông qua các lệnh thông báo định dạng của NVDA, khi thông số này được thay đổi bằng các phím nóng của Word và khi di chuyển qua các dòng với các định dạng khác nhau về khoảng cách, mà tính năng thông báo khoảng cách dòng  trong cài đặt định dạng tài liệu được bật. (#2961)
- Trong Internet Explorer, cấu trúc thành phần HTML5 đã được nhận biết. (#5591)
- Có thể vô hiệu tính năng thông báo chú thích (trong Microsoft Word chẳng hạn) bằng cách bỏ chọn mục thông báo chú thích trong hộp thoại cài đặt định dạng tài liệu. (#5108)
- Giờ đây, đã có thể vô hiệu hóa một Add-on nào đó thông qua trình quản lý Add-on. (#3090)
- Thêm các phím lệnh cho màn hình chữ nổi dòng ALVA BC640/680. (#5206)
- Đã có lệnh di chuyển con trỏ của màn hình chữ nổi đến vị trí đang có focus. Hiện nay, chỉ dòng ALVA BC640/680 được gán phím nóng cho lệnh này. Tuy nhiên, người dùng có thể gán phím nóng cho các màn hình chữ nổi khác thông qua hộp thoại Quản lý thao tác. (#5250)
- Trong Microsoft Excel, bạn đã có thể tương tác được với biểu mẫu. Bạn di chuyển đến các biểu mẫu thông qua danh sách các thành phần hoặc dùng các phím di chuyển nhanh trong chế độ duyệt. (#4953)
- Giờ đây, bạn có thể gán thao tác để bật/ tắt chế độ simple review thông qua hộp thoại Quản lý thao tác. (#6173)

== Các thay đổi ==
- Giờ đây, NVDA thông báo màu sắc bằng nhóm màu căn bản, phổ biến, gồm 9 kiểu màu thông thường, 3 kiểu màu bóng, với bóng sáng và bóng mờ. như vậy sẽ tốt hơn là thông báo màu với nhiều chủ đề và với những tên gọi khó hiểu. (#6029)
- Phím lệnh NVDA+F9 và NVDA+F10 đã được thay đổi. Giờ đây, người dùng bấm F10 lần thứ nhất để kết thúc vùng chọn, bấm thêm lần nữa để sao chép vùng chọn vào bộ nhớ tạm. (#4636)
- Đã cập nhật bộ đọc eSpeak NG lên phiên bản Master 11b1a7b (ra mắt ngày 22/6/2016). (#6037)

== Sửa lỗi: ==
- Ở chế độ duyệt trong Microsoft Word, định dạng của văn bản được giữ nguyên khi sao chép. (#5956)
- Trong Microsoft Word, NVDA đã đọc chính xác khi di chuyển trong bảng biểu bằng phím nóng của Word (Alt+Home, Alt+End, Alt+PageUp và Alt+PageDown), và các phím lệnh cho việc chọn văn bản trong bảng biểu đã được thêm vào nhóm các phím lệnh điều hướng. (#5961)
- Trong các hộp thoại của Microsoft Word, chế độ duyệt đối tượng đã được cải thiện và hoạt động một cách tuyệt vời. (#6036)
- Trong một vài ứng dụng như Visual Studio 2015, các phím lệnh như Ctrl+C để sao chép nay đã được NVDA đọc như mong đợi. (#6021)
- Sửa một lỗi hiếm gặp khi quét cổng Serial trên vài hệ thống. Lỗi này làm cho các driver màn hình chữ nổi trở nên vô dụng. (#6015)
- Việc đọc màu trong Microsoft Word giờ đây đã chính xác hơn khi mà các thay đổi trong giao diện nền của Office đã được đưa vào tài khoản. (#5997)
- Chế độ duyệt cho Microsoft Edge và hỗ trợ tính năng gợi ý tìm kiếm trên Start Menu nay đã hoạt động với các phiên bản Windows 10 phát hành sau tháng 4/2016. (#5955)
- Trong Microsoft Word, tính năng tự đọc tiêu đề của bảng biểu đã hoạt động tốt hơn khi làm việc với bảng có các ô được trộn lại. (#5926)
- Trong ứng dụng Mail của Windows 10, NVDA không còn bị lỗi không đọc được nội dung của
thư. (#5635)
- Khi bật chế độ đọc phím lệnh, không còn xảy ra tình trạng đọc hai lần các phím như phím khóa hoa. (#5490)
- NVDA đã đọc chính xác trong hộp thoại User account Control của Windows 10 Anniversary update. (#5942)
- Trong các Plugin dành cho trò chuyện trên Web như trang out-of-sight.net chẳng hạn, không còn xảy ra tình trạng NvDA phát ra tiếng Beep và đọc các cập nhật liên quan tới Microphone. (#5888)
- Khả năng vận hành của lệnh tìm tiếp và tìm lùi trong chế độ duyệt giờ đây sẽ thực hiện chính xác việc phân biệt chữ hoa/ chữ thường khi tìm kiếm, nếu trước đó người dùng đã tìm kiếm ở chế độ này. (#5522)
- Khi chỉnh sửa một từ trong từ điển, đã có phản hồi khi gán sai cú pháp. NVDA không còn bị hỏng khi gõ sai cú pháp. (#4834)
- Nếu NVDA không thể giao tiếp với một màn hình chữ nổi vì nó đã bị ngắt kết nối, việc sử dụng màn hình đó sẽ bị vô hiệu hóa. (#1555)
- Cải thiện khả năng vận hành của bộ lọc trong chế độ duyệt danh sách các thành phần trong vài trường hợp. (#6126)
This is a minor release to work around a crash in Google Chrome when navigating tweetts on www.twitter.com/ 

2018.3.1

This is a minor release to fix a critical bug in NVDA which caused 32 bit versions of Mozilla Firefox to crash. (#8759) 

2018.3

Highlights of this release include automatic detection of many Braille displays, support for new Windows 10 features including the Windows 10 Emoji input panel, and many other bug fixes. 

New Features
•NVDA will report grammar errors when appropriately exposed by web pages in Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. (#8280) 
•Content marked as being either inserted or deleted in web pages is now reported in Google Chrome. (#8558) 
•Added support for BrailleNote QT and Apex BT's scroll wheel when BrailleNote is used as a braille display with NVDA. (#5992, #5993) 
•Added scripts for reporting elapsed and total time of current track in Foobar2000. (#6596) 
•The Mac command key symbol (⌘) is now announced when reading text with any synthesizer. (#8366) 
•Custom roles via the aria-roledescription attribute are now supported in all web browsers. (#8448) 
•New braille tables: Czech 8 dot, Central Kurdish, Esperanto, Hungarian, Swedish 8 dot computer braille. (#8226, #8437) 
•Support has been added to automatically detect braille displays in the background. (#1271) ◦ALVA, Baum/HumanWare/APH/Orbit, Eurobraille, Handy Tech, Hims, SuperBraille and HumanWare BrailleNote and Brailliant BI/B displays are currently supported. 
◦You can enable this feature by selecting the automatic option from the list of braille displays in NVDA's braille display selection dialog. 
◦Please consult the documentation for additional details. 

•Added support for various modern input features introduced in recent Windows 10 releases. These include emoji panel (Fall Creators Update), dictation (Fall Creators Update), hardware keyboard input suggestions (April 2018 Update), and cloud clipboard paste (October 2018 Update). (#7273) 
•Content marked as a block quote using ARIA (role blockquote) is now supported in Mozilla Firefox 63. (#8577) 

Changes
•The list of available languages in NVDA's General Settings is now sorted based on language names instead of ISO 639 codes. (#7284) 
•Added default gestures for Alt+Shift+Tab and Windows+Tab with all supported Freedom Scientific braille displays. (#7387) 
•For ALVA BC680 and protocol converter displays, it is now possible to assign different functions to the left and right smart pad, thumb and etouch keys. (#8230) 
•For ALVA BC6 displays, the key combination sp2+sp3 will now announce the current date and time, whereas sp1+sp2 emulates the Windows key. (#8230) 
•The user is asked once when NVDA starts if they are happy sending usage statistics to NV Access when checking for NVDA updates. (#8217) 
•When checking for updates, if the user has agreed to allow sending usage statistics to NV Access, NVDA will now send the name of the current synth driver and braille display in use, to aide in better prioritization for future work on these drivers. (#8217) 
•Updated liblouis braille translator to version 3.6.0. (#8365) 
•Updated the path to the correct Russian eight-dots Braille table. (#8446) 
•Updated eSpeak-ng to 1.49.3dev commit 910f4c2. (#8561) 

Bug Fixes
•Accessible labels for controls in Google Chrome are now more readily reported in browse mode when the label does not appear as content itself. (#4773) 
•Notifications are now supported in Zoom. For example, this includes mute/unmute status, and incoming messages. (#7754) 
•Switching braille context presentation when in browse mode no longer causes braille output to stop following browse mode cursor. (#7741) 
•ALVA BC680 braille displays no longer intermittently fail to initialize. (#8106) 
•By default, ALVA BC6 displays will no longer execute emulated system keyboard keys when pressing key combinations involving sp2+sp3 to trigger internal functionality. (#8230) 
•Pressing sp2 on an ALVA BC6 display to emulate the alt key now works as advertised. (#8360) 
•NVDA no longer announces redundant keyboard layout changes. (#7383, #8419) 
•Mouse tracking is now much more accurate in Notepad and other plain text edit controls when in a document with more than 65535 characters. (#8397) 
•NVDA will recognize more dialogs in Windows 10 and other modern applications. (#8405) 
•On Windows 10 October 2018 Update and Server 2019 and above, NVDA no longer fails to track the system focus when an application freezes or floods the system with events. (#7345, #8535) 
•Users are now informed when attempting to read or copy an empty status bar. (#7789) 
•Fixed an issue where the "not checked" state on controls is not reported in speech if the control has previously been half checked. (#6946) 
•In the list of languages in NVDA's General Settings, language name for Burmese is displayed correctly on Windows 7. (#8544) 
•In Microsoft Edge, NVDA will announce notifications such as reading view availability and page load progress. (#8423) 
•When navigating into a list on the web, NVDA will now report its label if the web author has provided one. (#7652) 
•When manually assigning functions to gestures for a particular braille display, these gestures now always show up as being assigned to that display. Previously, they showed up as if they were assigned to the currently active display. (#8108) 
•The 64-bit version of Media Player Classic is now supported. (#6066) 
•Several improvements to braille support in Microsoft Word with UI Automation enabled: ◦Similar to other multiline text fields, When positioned at the start of a document in Braille, the display is now panned such that the first character of the document is at the start of the display. (#8406) 
◦Reduced overly verbose focus presentation in both speech and braille when focusing a Word document. (#8407) 
◦Cursor routing in braille now works correctly when in a list in a Word document. (#7971) 
◦Newly inserted bullets/numbers in a Word document are correctly reported in both speech and braille. (#7970) 

•In Windows 10 1803 and later, it is now possible to install add-ons if the "Use Unicode UTF-8 for worldwide language support" feature is enabled. (#8599) 
•NVDA will no longer make iTunes 12.9 and newer completely unusable to interact with. (#8744) 

Changes for Developers
•Added scriptHandler.script, which can function as a decorator for scripts on scriptable objects. (#6266) 
•A system test framework has been introduced for NVDA. (#708) 
•Some changes have been made to the hwPortUtils module: (#1271) ◦listUsbDevices now yields dictionaries with device information including hardwareID and devicePath. 
◦Dictionaries yielded by listComPorts now also contain a usbID entry for COM ports with USB VID/PID information in their hardware ID. 

•Updated wxPython to 4.0.3. (#7077) 
•As NVDA now only supports Windows 7 SP1 and later, the key "minWindowsVersion" used to check if UIA should be enabled for a particular release of Windows has been removed. (#8422) 
•You can now register to be notified about configuration saves/reset actions via new config.pre_configSave, config.post_configSave, config.pre_configReset, and config.post_configReset actions. (#7598) ◦config.pre_configSave is used to be notified when NVDA's configuration is about to be saved, and config.post_configSave is called after configuration has been saved. 
◦config.pre_configReset and config.post_configReset includes a factory defaults flag to specify if settings are reloaded from disk (false) or reset to defaults (true). 

•config.configProfileSwitch has been renamed to config.post_configProfileSwitch to reflect the fact that this action is called after profile switch takes place. (#7598) 
•UI Automation interfaces updated to Windows 10 October 2018 Update and Server 2019 (IUIAutomation6 / IUIAutomationElement9). (#8473) 

2018.2.1

This release includes translation updates due to last-minute removal of a feature which caused problems. 

2018.2

Highlights of this release include Support for tables in Kindle for PC, support for HumanWare BrailleNote Touch and BI14 Braille displays, Improvements to both Onecore and Sapi5 speech synthesizers, improvements in Microsoft Outlook and much more. 

New Features
•row and column span for table cells is now reported in speech and braille. (#2642) 
•NVDA table navigation commands are now supported in Google Docs (with Braille mode enabled). (#7946) 
•Added ability to read and navigate tables in Kindle for PC. (#7977) 
•Support for HumanWare BrailleNote touch and Brailliant BI 14 braille displays via both USB and bluetooth. (#6524) 
•In Windows 10 Fall Creators Update and later, NVDA can announce notifications from apps such as Calculator and Windows Store. (#7984) 
•New braille translation tables: Lithuanian 8 dot, Ukrainian, Mongolian grade 2. (#7839) 
•Added a script to report formatting information for the text under a specific braille cell. (#7106) 
•When updating NVDA, it is now possible to postpone the installation of the update to a later moment. (#4263) 
•New languages: Mongolian, Swiss German. 
•You can now toggle control, shift, alt, windows and NVDA from your braille keyboard and combine these modifiers with braille input (e.g. press control+s). (#7306) ◦You can assign these new modifier toggles using the commands found under Emulated system keyboard keys in the Input gestures dialog. 

•Restored support for Handy Tech Braillino and Modular (with old firmware) displays. (#8016) 
•Date and time for supported Handy Tech devices (such as Active Braille and Active Star) will now automatically be synchronized by NVDA when out of sync more than five seconds. (#8016) 
•An input gesture can be assigned to temporarily disable all configuration profile triggers. (#4935) 

Changes
•The status column in the addons manager has been changed to indicate if the addon is enabled or disabled rather than running or suspended. (#7929) 
•Updated liblouis braille translator to 3.5.0. (#7839) 
•The Lithuanian braille table has been renamed to Lithuanian 6 dot to avoid confusion with the new 8 dot table. (#7839) 
•The French (Canada) grade 1 and grade 2 tables have been removed. Instead, the French (unified) 6 dot computer braille and Grade 2 tables will be used respectively. (#7839) 
•The secondary routing buttons on Alva BC6, EuroBraille and Papenmeier braille displays now report formatting information for the text under the braille cell of that button. (#7106) 
•Contracted braille input tables will automatically fall back to uncontracted mode in non-editable cases (i.e. controls where there is no cursor or in browse mode). (#7306) 
•NVDA is now less verbose when an appointment or time slot in the Outlook calendar covers an entire day. (#7949) 
•All of NVDA's Preferences can now be found in one settings dialog under NVDA Menu -> Preferences -> Settings, rather than scattered throughout many dialogs. (#577) 
•The default speech synthesizer when running on Windows 10 is now oneCore speech rather than eSpeak. (#8176) 

Bug Fixes
•NVDA no longer fails to read focused controls in the Microsoft Account sign-in screen in Settings after entering an email address. (#7997) 
•NVDA no longer fails to read the page when going back to a previous page in Microsoft Edge. (#7997) 
•NVDA will no longer incorrectly announce the final character of a windows 10 sign-in PIN as the machine unlocks. (#7908) 
•Labels of checkboxes and radio buttons in Chrome and Firefox are no longer reported twice when tabbing or using quick navigation in Browse mode. (#7960) 
•aria-current with a value of false will be announced as "false" instead of "true". (#7892). 
•Windows OneCore Voices no longer fails to load if the configured voice has been uninstalled. (#7553) 
•Changing voices in the Windows OneCore Voices is now a lot faster. (#7999) 
•Fixed malformed braille output for several braille tables, including capital signs in 8 dot contracted Danish braille. (#7526, #7693) 
•NVDA can now report more bullet types in Microsoft Word. (#6778) 
•Pressing the report formatting script no longer incorrectly moves the reviewPosition and therefore pressing it multiple times no longer gives different results. (#7869) 
•Braille input no longer allows you to use contracted braille in cases where it is not supported (i.e. whole words will no longer be sent to the system outside text content and in browse mode). (#7306) 
•Fixed connection stability issues for Handy Tech Easy Braille and Braille Wave displays. (#8016) 
•On Windows 8 and later, NVDA will no longer announce "unknown" when opening quick link menu )Windows+X) and selecting items from this menu. (#8137) 
•Model specific gestures to buttons on Hims displays are now working as advertised in the user guide. (#8096) 
•NVDA will now try to correct system COM registration issues causing programs such as Firefox and Internet Explorer to become inaccessible and report "Unknown" by NVDA. (#2807) 
•Worked around a bug in Task Manager causing NVDA to not allow users to access the contents of specific details about processes. (#8147) 
•Newer Microsoft SAPI5 voices no longer lag at the end of speech, making it much more efficient to navigate with these voices. (#8174) 
•NVDA no longer reports (LTR and RTL marks) in Braille or per-character speech when accessing the clock in recent versions of Windows. (#5729) 
•Detection of scroll keys on Hims Smart Beetle displays is once more no longer unreliable. (#6086) 
•In some text controls, particularly in Delphi applications, the information provided about editing and navigating is now much more reliable. (#636, #8102) 
•In Windows 10 RS5, NVDA no longer reports extra redundant information when switching tasks with alt+tab. (#8258) 

Changes for developers
•The developer info for UIA objects now contains a list of the UIA patterns available. (#5712) 
•App modules can now force certain windows to always use UIA by implementing the isGoodUIAWindow method. (#7961) 
•The hidden boolean flag "outputPass1Only" in the braille section of the configuration has again been removed. Liblouis no longer supports pass 1 only output. (#7839) 

2018.1.1

This is a special release of NVDA which addresses a bug in the Onecore Windows Speech synthesizer driver, which was causing it to speak with a higher pitch and speed in Windows 10 Redstone 4 (1803). (#8082) 

2018.1

Highlights of this release include support for charts in Microsoft word and PowerPoint, support for new braille displays including Eurobraille and the Optelec protocol converter, improved support for Hims and Optelec braille displays, performance improvements for Mozilla Firefox 58 and higher, and much more. 

New Features
•It is now possible to interact with charts in Microsoft Word and Microsoft PowerPoint, similar to the existing support for charts in Microsoft Excel. (#7046) ◦In Microsoft Word: When in browse mode, cursor to an embedded chart and press enter to interact with it. 
◦In Microsoft PowerPoint when editing a slide: tab to a chart object, and press enter or space to interact with the chart. 
◦To stop interacting with a chart, press escape. 

•New language: Kyrgyz. 
•Added support for VitalSource Bookshelf. (#7155) 
•Added support for the Optelec protocol converter, a device that allows one to use Braille Voyager and Satellite displays using the ALVA BC6 communication protocol. (#6731) 
•It is now possible to use braille input with an ALVA 640 Comfort braille display. (#7733) ◦NVDA's braille input functionality can be used with these as well as other BC6 displays with firmware 3.0.0 and above. 

•Early support for Google Sheets with Braille mode enabled. (#7935) 
•Support for Eurobraille Esys, Esytime and Iris braille displays. (#7488) 

Changes
•The HIMS Braille Sense/Braille EDGE/Smart Beetle and Hims Sync Braille display drivers have been replaced by one driver. The new driver will automatically be activated for former syncBraille driver users. (#7459) ◦Some keys , notably scroll keys, have been reassigned to follow the conventions used by Hims products. Consult the user guide for more details. 

•When typing with the on-screen keyboard via touch interaction, by default you now need to double tap each key the same way you would activate any other control. (#7309) ◦To use the existing "touch typing" mode where simply lifting your finger off the key is enough to activate it, Enable this option in the new Touch Interaction settings dialog found in the Preferences menu. 

•It is no longer necessary to explicitly tether braille to focus or review, as this will happen automatically by default. (#2385) ◦Note that automatic tethering to review will only occur when using a review cursor or object navigation command. Scrolling will not activate this new behavior. 


Bug Fixes
•Browseable messages such as showing current formatting when pressing NVDA+f twice quickly no longer fails when NVDA is installed on a path with non-ASCII characters. (#7474) 
•Focus is now once again restored correctly when returning to Spotify from another application. (#7689) 
•In Windows 10 Fall Creaters Update, NVDA no longer fails to update when Controlled Folder Access is enabled from Windows Defender Security Center. (#7696) 
•Detection of scroll keys on Hims Smart Beetle displays is no longer unreliable. (#6086) 
•A slight performance improvement when rendering large amounts of content in Mozilla Firefox 58 and later. (#7719) 
•In Microsoft Outlook, reading emails containing tables no longer causes errors. (#6827) 
•Braille display gestures that emulate system keyboard key modifiers can now also be combined with other emulated system keyboard keys if one or more of the involved gestures are model specific. (#7783) 
•In Mozilla Firefox, browse mode now works correctly in pop-ups created by extensions such as LastPass and bitwarden. (#7809) 
•NVDA no longer sometimes freezes on every focus change if Firefox or Chrome have stopped responding such as due to a freeze or crash. (#7818) 
•In twitter clients such as Chicken Nugget, NVDA will no longer ignore the last 20 characters of 280 character tweets when reading them. (#7828) 
•NVDA now uses the correct language when announcing symbols when text is selected. (#7687) 
•In recent versions of Office 365, it is again possible to navigate Excel charts using the arrow keys. (#7046) 
•In speech and braille output, control states will now always be reported in the same order, regardless whether they are positive or negative. (#7076) 
•In apps such as Windows 10 Mail, NVDA will no longer fail to announce deleted characters when pressing backspace. (#7456) 
•All keys on the Hims Braille Sense Polaris displays are now working as expected. (#7865) 
•NVDA no longer fails to start on Windows 7 complaining about an internal api-ms dll, when a particular version of the Visual Studio 2017 redistributables have been installed by another application. (#7975) 

Changes for developers
•Added a hidden boolean flag to the braille section in the configuration: "outputPass1Only". (#7301, #7693, #7702) ◦This flag defaults to true. If false, liblouis multi pass rules will be used for braille output. 

•A new dictionary (braille.RENAMED_DRIVERS) has been added to allow for smooth transition for users using drivers that have been superseded by others. (#7459) 
•Updated comtypes package to 1.1.3. (#7831) 
•Implemented a generic system in braille.BrailleDisplayDriver to deal with displays which send confirmation/acknowledgement packets. See the handyTech braille display driver as an example. (#7590, #7721) 
•A new "isAppX" variable in the config module can be used to detect if NVDA is running as a Windows Desktop Bridge Store app. (#7851) 
•For document implementations such as NVDAObjects or browseMode that have a textInfo, there is now a new documentBase.documentWithTableNavigation class that can be inherited from to gain standard table navigation scripts. Please refer to this class to see which helper methods must be provided by your implementation for table navigation to work. (#7849) 
•The scons batch file now better handles when Python 3 is also installed, making use of the launcher to specifically launch python 2.7 32 bit. (#7541) 
•hwIo.Hid now takes an additional parameter exclusive, which defaults to True. If set to False, other applications are allowed to communicate with a device while it is connected to NVDA. (#7859) 

2017.4

Highlights of this release include many fixes and enhancements to web support including browse mode for web dialogs by default, better reporting of field group labels in browse mode, support for new Windows 10 technologies such as Windows Defender Application Guard and Windows 10 on ARM64, and automatic reporting of screen orientation and battery status. Please note that this version of NVDA no longer supports Windows XP or Windows Vista. The minimum requirement for NVDA is now windows 7 with Service Pack 1. 

New Features
•In browse mode, it is now possible to skip past/to the start of landmarks using the skip to end/beginning of container commands (comma/shift+comma). (#5482) 
•In Firefox, Chrome and Internet Explorer, quick navigation to edit fields and form fields now includes editable rich text content (I.e. contentEditable). (#5534) 
•In web browsers, the Elements List can now list form fields and buttons. (#588) 
•Initial support for Windows 10 on ARM64. (#7508) 
•Early support for reading and interactive navigation of mathematical content for Kindle books with accessible math. (#7536) 
•Added support for Azardi e-book reader. (#5848) 
•Version information for add-ons is now reported when being updated. (#5324) 
•Added new command line parameters to create a portable copy of NVDA. (#6329) 
•Support for Microsoft Edge running within Windows Defender Application Guard in Windows 10 Fall Creators Update. (#7600) 
•If running on a laptop or tablet, NVDA will now report when a charger is connected/disconnected, and when the screen orientation changes. (#4574, #4612) 
•New language: Macedonian. 
•New braille translation tables: Croatian grade 1, Vietnamese grade 1. (#7518, #7565) 
•Support for the Actilino braille display from Handy Tech has been added. (#7590) 
•Braille input for Handy Tech braille displays is now supported. (#7590) 

Changes
•The minimum supported Operating System for NVDA is now Windows 7 Service Pack 1, or Windows Server 2008 R2 Service Pack 1. (#7546) 
•Web dialogs in Firefox and Chrome web browsers now automatically use browse Mode, unless inside of a web application. (#4493) 
•In browse mode, tabbing and moving with quick navigation commands no longer announces jumping out of containers such as lists and tables, which makes navigating more efficient. (#2591) 
•In Browse mode for Firefox and Chrome, the name of form field groups are now announced when moving into them with quick navigation or when tabbing. (#3321) 
•In browse mode, the quick navigation command for embedded objects (o and shift+o) now includes audio and video elements as well as elements with the aria roles application and dialog. (#7239) 
•Espeak-ng has been updated to 1.49.2, resolving some issues with producing release builds. (#7385, #7583) 
•On the third activation of the 'read status bar' command, its contents is copied to the clipboard. (#1785) 
•When assigning gestures to keys on a Baum display, you can limit them to the model of the braille display in use (e.g. VarioUltra or Pronto). (#7517) 
•The hotkey for the filter field in the elements list in browse mode has changed from alt+f to alt+e. (#7569) 
•An unbound command has been added for browse mode to toggle the inclusion of layout tables on the fly. You can find this command in the Browse mode category of the Input Gestures dialog. (#7634) 
•Upgraded liblouis braille translator to 3.3.0. (#7565) 
•The hotkey for the regular expression radio button in the dictionary dialog has changed from alt+r to alt+e. (#6782) 
•Voice dictionary files are now versioned and have been moved to the 'speechDicts/voiceDicts.v1' directory. (#7592) 
•Versioned files (user configuration, voice dictionaries) modifications are no longer saved when NVDA is run from the launcher. (#7688) 
•The Braillino, Bookworm and Modular (with old firmware) braille displays from Handy Tech are no longer supported out of the box. Install the Handy Tech Universal Driver and NVDA add-on to use these displays. (#7590) 

Bug Fixes
•Links are now indicated in braille in applications such as Microsoft Word. (#6780) 
•NVDA no longer becomes noticeably slower when many tabs are open in either Firefox or Chrome web browsers. (#3138) 
•Cursor routing for the MDV Lilli Braille display no longer incorrectly moves one braille cell ahead of where it should be. (#7469) 
•In Internet Explorer and other MSHTML documents, the HTML5 required attribute is now supported to indicate the required state of a form field. (#7321) 
•Braille displays are now updated when typing Arabic characters in a left-aligned WordPad document. (#511) 
•Accessible labels for controls in Mozilla Firefox are now more readily reported in browse mode when the label does not appear as content itself. (#4773) 
•On windows 10 Creaters Update, NVDA can again access Firefox after a restart of NVDA. (#7269) 
•When restarting NVDA with Mozilla Firefox in focus, browse mode will again be available, though you may need to alt+tab away and back again. (#5758) 
•It is now possible to access math content in Google Chrome on a system with out Mozilla Firefox installed. (#7308) 
•The Operating System and other applications should be more stable directly after installing NVDA before rebooting, as compaired with installs of previous NVDA versions. (#7563) 
•When using a content recognition command (e.g. NVDA+r), NVDA now reports an error message instead of nothing if the navigator object has disappeared. (#7567) 
•Backward scrolling functionality has been fixed for Freedom Scientific braille displays containing a left bumper bar. (#7713) 

Changes for Developers
•"scons tests" now checks that translatable strings have translator comments. You can also run this alone with "scons checkPot". (#7492) 
•There is now a new extensionPoints module which provides a generic framework to enable code extensibility at specific points in the code. This allows interested parties to register to be notified when some action occurs (extensionPoints.Action), to modify a specific kind of data (extensionPoints.Filter) or to participate in deciding whether something will be done (extensionPoints.Decider). (#3393) 
•You can now register to be notified about configuration profile switches via the config.configProfileSwitched Action. (#3393) 
•Braille display gestures that emulate system keyboard key modifiers (such as control and alt) can now be combined with other emulated system keyboard keys without explicit definition. (#6213) ◦For example, if you have a key on your display bound to the alt key and another display key to downArrow, combining these keys will result in the emulation of alt+downArrow. 

•The braille.BrailleDisplayGesture class now has an extra model property. If provided, pressing a key will generate an additional, model specific gesture identifier. This allows a user to bind gestures limited to a specific braille display model. ◦See the baum driver as an example for this new functionality. 

•NVDA is now compiled with Visual Studio 2017 and the Windows 10 SDK. (#7568) 

2017.3

Highlights of this release include input of contracted braille, support for new Windows OneCore voices available on Windows 10, in-built support for Windows 10 OCR, and many significant improvements regarding Braille and the web. 

New Features
•A Braille setting has been added to "show messages indefinitely". (#6669) 
•In Microsoft Outlook message lists, NVDA now reports if a message is flagged. (#6374) 
•In Microsoft PowerPoint, the exact type of a shape is now reported when editing a slide (such as triangle, circle, video or arrow), rather than just "shape". (#7111) 
•Mathematical content (provided as MathML) is now supported in Google Chrome. (#7184) 
•NVDA can now speak using the new Windows OneCore voices (also known as Microsoft Mobile voices) included in Windows 10. You access these by selecting Windows OneCore voices in NVDA's Synthesizer dialog. (#6159) 
•NVDA user configuration files can now be stored in the user's local application data folder. This is enabled via a setting in the registry. See "System Wide Parameters" in the User Guide for more details. (#6812) 
•In web browsers, NVDA now reports placeholder values for fields (specifically, aria-placeholder is now supported). (#7004) 
•In Browse mode for Microsoft Word, it is now possible to navigate to spelling errors using quick navigation (w and shift+w). (#6942) 
•Added support for the Date picker control found in Microsoft Outlook Appointment dialogs. (#7217) 
•The currently selected suggestion is now reported in Windows 10 Mail to/cc fields and the Windows 10 Settings search field. (#6241) 
•A sound is now playd to indicate the appearance of suggestions in certain search fields in Windows 10 (E.g. start screen, settings search, Windows 10 mail to/cc fields). (#6241) 
•NVDA now automatically reports notifications in Skype for Business Desktop, such as when someone starts a conversation with you. (#7281) 
•NVDA now automatically reports incoming chat messages while in a Skype for Business conversation. (#7286) 
•NVDA now automatically reports notifications in Microsoft Edge, such as when a download starts. (#7281) 
•You can now type in both contracted and uncontracted braille on a braille display with a braille keyboard. See the Braille Input section of the User Guide for details. (#2439) 
•You can now enter Unicode braille characters from the braille keyboard on a braille display by selecting Unicode braille as the input table in Braille Settings. (#6449) 
•Added support for the SuperBraille braille display used in Taiwan. (#7352) 
•New braille translation tables: Danish 8 dot computer braille, Lithuanian, Persian 8 dot computer braille, Persian grade 1, Slovenian 8 dot computer braille. (#6188, #6550, #6773, #7367) 
•Improved English (U.S.) 8 dot computer braille table, including support for bullets, the euro sign and accented letters. (#6836) 
•NVDA can now use the OCR functionality included in Windows 10 to recognize the text of images or inaccessible applications. (#7361) ◦The language can be set from the new Windows 10 OCR dialog in NVDA Preferences. 
◦To recognize the content of the current navigator object, press NVDA+r. 
◦See the Content Recognition section of the User Guide for further details. 

•You can now choose what context information is shown on a braille display when an object gets focus using the new "Focus context presentation" setting in the Braille Settings dialog. (#217) ◦For example, the "Fill display for context changes" and "Only when scrolling back" options can make working with lists and menus more efficient, since the items won't continually change their position on the display. 
◦See the section on the "Focus context presentation" setting in the User Guide for further details and examples. 

•In Firefox and Chrome, NVDA now supports complex dynamic grids such as spreadsheets where only some of the content might be loaded or displayed (specifically, the aria-rowcount, aria-colcount, aria-rowindex and aria-colindex attributes introduced in ARIA 1.1). (#7410) 

Changes
•An unbound command has been added to restart NVDA on demand. You can find it in the Miscelaneous category of the Input Gestures dialog. (#6396) 
•The keyboard layout can now be set from the NVDA Welcome dialog. (#6863) 
•Many more control types and states have been abbreviated for braille. Landmarks have also been abbreviated. Please see "Control Type, State and Landmark Abbreviations" under Braille in the User Guide for a complete list. (#7188, #3975) 
•Updated eSpeak NG to 1.49.1. (#7280) 
•The output and input table lists in the Braille Settings dialog are now sorted alphabetically. (#6113) 
•Updated liblouis braille translator to 3.2.0. (#6935) 
•The default braille table is now Unified English Braille Code grade 1. (#6952) 
•By default, NVDA now only shows the parts of the context information that have changed on a braille display when an object gets focus. (#217) ◦Previously, it always showed as much context information as possible, regardless of whether you have seen the same context information before. 
◦You can revert to the old behaviour by changing the new "Focus context presentation" setting in the Braille Settings dialog to "Always fill display". 

•When using Braille, the cursor can be configured to be a different shape when tethered to focus or review. (#7122) 
•The NVDA logo has been updated. The updated NVDA logo is a stylised blend of the letters NVDA in white, on a solid purple background. This ensures it will be visible on any colour background, and uses the purple from the NV Access logo. (#7446) 

Bug Fixes
•Editable div elements in Chrome no longer have their label reported as their value while in browse mode. (#7153) 
•Pressing end while in browse mode for an empty Microsoft Word document no longer causes a runtime error. (#7009) 
•Browse mode is now correctly supported in Microsoft Edge where a document has been given a specific ARIA role of document. (#6998) 
•In browse mode, you can now select or unselect to the end of the line using shift+end even when the caret is on the last character of the line. (#7157) 
•If a dialog contains a progress bar, the dialog text is now updated in braille when the progress bar changes. This means, for example, that the remaining time can now be read in NVDA's "Downloading Update" dialog. (#6862) 
•NVDA will now announce selection changes for certain Windows 10 combo boxes such as AutoPlay in Settings. (#6337). 
•Pointless information is no longer announced when entering Meeting / Appointment creation dialogs in Microsoft Outlook. (#7216) 
•Beeps for indeterminate progress bar dialogs such as the update checker only when progress bar output is configured to include beeps. (#6759) 
•In Microsoft Excel 2003 and 2007, cells are again reported when arrowing around a worksheet. (#7243) 
•In Windows 10 Creators Update and later, browse mode is again automatically enabled when reading emails in Windows 10 Mail. (#7289) 
•On most braille displays with a braille keyboard, dot 7 now erases the last entered braille cell or character, and dot 8 presses the enter key. (#6054) 
•In editable text, when moving the caret (e.g. with the cursor keys or backspace), NVDA's spoken feedback is now more accurate in many cases, particularly in Chrome and terminal applications. (#6424) 
•The content of the Signature Editor in Microsoft Outlook 2016 can now be read. (#7253) 
•In Java Swing applications, NVDA no longer sometimes causes the application to crash when navigating tables. (#6992) 
•In Windows 10 Creators Update, NVDA will no longer announce toast notifications multiple times. (#7128) 
•In The start menu in Windows 10, pressing Enter to close the start menu after a search no longer causes NVDA to announce search text. (#7370) 
•Performing quick navigation to headings in Microsoft Edge is now significantly faster. (#7343) 
•In Microsoft Edge, navigating in browse mode no longer skips large parts of certain web pages such as the Wordpress 2015 theme. (#7143) 
•In Microsoft Edge, landmarks are correctly localized in languages other than English. (#7328) 
•Braille now correctly follows the selection when selecting text beyond the width of the display. For example, if you select multiple lines with shift+downArrow, braille now shows the last line you selected. (#5770) 
•In Firefox, NVDA no longer spuriously reports "section" several times when opening details for a tweet on twitter.com. (#5741) 
•Table navigation commands are no longer available for layout tables in Browse Mode unless reporting of layout tables is enabled. (#7382) 
•In Firefox and Chrome, Browse Mode table navigation commands now skip over hidden table cells. (#6652, #5655) 

Changes for Developers
•Timestamps in the log now include milliseconds. (#7163) 
•NVDA must now be built with Visual Studio Community 2015. Visual Studio Express is no longer supported. (#7110) ◦The Windows 10 Tools and SDK are now also required, which can be enabled when installing Visual Studio. 
◦See the Installed Dependencies section of the readme for additional details. 

•Support for content recognizers such as OCR and image description tools can be easily implemented using the new contentRecog package. (#7361) 
•The Python json package is now included in NVDA binary builds. (#3050) 

2017.2

Highlights of this release include full support for audio ducking in the Windows 10 Creators Update; fixes for several selection issues in browse mode, including problems with select all; significant improvements in Microsoft Edge support; and improvements on the web such as indication of elements marked as current (using aria-current). 

New Features
•Cell border information can now be reported in Microsoft Excel by using NVDA+f. (#3044) 
•In web browsers, NVDA now indicates when an element has been marked as current (specifically, using the aria-current attribute). (#6358) 
•Automatic language switching is now supported in Microsoft Edge. (#6852) 
•Added support for Windows Calculator on Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB (Long-Term Servicing Branch) and Server. (#6914) 
•Performing the read current line command three times quickly spells the line with character descriptions. (#6893) 
•New language: Burmese. 
•Unicode up and down arrows and fraction symbols are now spoken appropriately. (#3805) 

Changes
•When navigating with simple review in applications using UI Automation, more extraneous objects are now ignored, making navigation easier. (#6948, #6950) 

Bug Fixes
•Web page menu items can now be activated while in browse mode. (#6735) 
•Pressing escape while the configuration profile "Confirm Deletion" dialog is active now dismisses the dialog. (#6851) 
•Fixed some crashes in Mozilla Firefox and other Gecko applications where the multi-process feature is enabled. (#6885) 
•Reporting of background color in screen review is now more accurate when text was drawn with a transparent background. (#6467) 
•Improved support for control descriptions provided on web pages in Internet Explorer 11 (specifically, support for aria-describedby within iframes and when multiple IDs are provided). (#5784) 
•In the Windows 10 Creators Update, NVDA's audio ducking again works as in previous Windows releases; i.e. Duck with speech and sounds, always duck and no ducking are all available. (#6933) 
•NVDA will no longer fail to navigate to or report certain (UIA) controls where a keyboard shortcut is not defined. (#6779) 
•Two empty spaces are no longer added in keyboard shortcut information for certain (UIA) controls. (#6790) 
•Certain combinations of keys on HIMS displays (e.g. space+dot4) no longer fail intermittently. (#3157) 
•Fixed an issue when opening a serial port on systems using certain languages other than English which caused connecting to braille displays to fail in some cases. (#6845) 
•Reduced the chance of the configuration file being corrupted when Windows shuts down. Configuration files are now written to a temporary file before replacing the actual configuration file. (#3165) 
•When performing the read current line command twice quickly to spell the line, the appropriate language is now used for the spelled characters. (#6726) 
•Navigating by line in Microsoft Edge is now up to three times faster in the Windows 10 Creators Update. (#6994) 
•NVDA no longer announces "Web Runtime grouping" when focusing Microsoft Edge documents in the Windows 10 Creators Update. (#6948) 
•All existing versions of SecureCRT are now supported. (#6302) 
•Adobe Acrobat Reader no longer crashes in certain PDF documents (specifically, those containing empty ActualText attributes). (#7021, #7034) 
•In browse mode in Microsoft Edge, interactive tables (ARIA grids) are no longer skipped when navigating to tables with t and shift+t. (#6977) 
•In browse mode, pressing shift+home after selecting forward now unselects to the beginning of the line as expected. (#5746) 
•In browse mode, select all (control+a) no longer fails to select all text if the caret is not at the start of the text. (#6909) 
•Fixed some other rare selection problems in browse mode. (#7131) 

Changes for Developers
•Commandline arguments are now processed with Python's argparse module, rather than optparse. This allows certain options such as -r and -q to be handled exclusively. (#6865) 
•core.callLater now queues the callback to NVDA's main queue after the given delay, rather than waking the core and executing it directly. This stops possible freezes due to the core accidentally going to sleep after processing a callback, in the midle of a modal call such as the desplaying of a message box. (#6797) 
•The InputGesture.identifiers property has been changed so that it is no longer normalized. (#6945) ◦Subclasses no longer need to normalize identifiers before returning them from this property. 
◦If you want normalized identifiers, there is now an InputGesture.normalizedIdentifiers property which normalizes the identifiers returned by the identifiers property . 

•The InputGesture.logIdentifier property is now deprecated. Callers should use InputGesture.identifiers[0] instead. (#6945) 
•Removed some deprecated code: ◦`speech.REASON_*` constants: `controlTypes.REASON_*` should be used instead. (#6846) 
◦`i18nName` for synth settings: `displayName` and `displayNameWithAccelerator` should be used instead. (#6846, #5185) 
◦`config.validateConfig`. (#6846, #667) 
◦`config.save`: `config.conf.save` should be used instead. (#6846, #667) 

•The list of completions in the autocomplete context menu of the Python Console no longer shows any object path leading up to the final symbol being completed. (#7023) 
•There is now a unit testing framework for NVDA. (#7026) ◦Unit tests and infrastructure are located in the tests/unit directory. See the docstring in the tests\unit\init.py file for details. 
◦You can run tests using "scons tests". See the "Running Tests" section of readme.md for details. 
◦If you are submitting a pull request for NVDA, you should first run the tests and ensure they pass. 


2017.1

Highlights of this release include reporting of sections and text columns in Microsoft Word; Support for reading, navigating and annotating books in Kindle for PC; and improved support for Microsoft Edge. 

New Features
•In Microsoft Word, the types of section breaks and section numbers can now be reported. This is enabled with the "Report page numbers" option in the Document Formatting dialog. (#5946) 
•In Microsoft Word, text columns can now be reported. This is enabled with the "Report page numbers" option in the document formatting dialog. (#5946) 
•Automatic language switching is now supported in WordPad. (#6555) 
•The NVDA find command (NVDA+control+f) is now supported in browse mode in Microsoft Edge. (#6580) 
•Quick navigation for buttons in browse mode (b and shift+b) is now supported in Microsoft Edge. (#6577) 
•When copying a sheet in Microsoft Excel, column and row headers are remembered. (#6628) 
•Support for reading and navigating books in Kindle for PC version 1.19, including access to links, footnotes, graphics, highlighted text and user notes. Please see the Kindle for PC section of the NVDA User Guide for further information. (#6247, #6638) 
•Browse mode table navigation is now supported in Microsoft Edge. (#6594) 
•In Microsoft Excel, the report review cursor location command (desktop: NVDA+numpadDelete, laptop: NVDA+delete) now reports the name of the worksheet and the cell location. (#6613) 
•Added an option to the exit dialog to restart with debug level logging. (#6689) 

Changes
•The minimum braille cursor blink rate is now 200 ms. If this was previously set lower, it will be increased to 200 ms. (#6470) 
•A check box has been added to the braille settings dialog to allow enabling/disabling braille cursor blinking. Previously a value of zero was used to achieve this. (#6470) 
•Updated eSpeak NG (commit e095f008, 10 January 2017). (#6717) 
•Due to changes In the Windows 10 Creators Update, the "Always duck" mode is no longer available in NVDA's Audio ducking settings. It is still available on older windows 10 releases. (#6684) 
•Due to changes in the Windows 10 Creators Update, the "Duck when outputting speech and sounds" mode can no longer ensure audio has ducked fully before starting to speak, nor will it keep audio ducked long enough after speaking to stop rappid bouncing in volume. These changes do not affect older windows 10 releases. (#6684) 

Bug Fixes
•Fixed freeze in Microsoft Word when moving by paragraph through a large document while in browse mode. (#6368) 
•Tables in Microsoft Word that have been copied from Microsoft Excel are no longer treeted as layout tables and therefore are no longer ignored. (#5927) 
•When trying to type in Microsoft Excel while in protected view, NVDA now makes a sound rather than speaking characters that were not actually typed. (#6570) 
•Pressing escape in Microsoft Excel no longer incorrectly switches to browse mode, unless the user has previously switched to browse mode explicitly with NVDA+space and then entered focus mode by pressing enter on a form field. (#6569) 
•NVDA no longer freezes in Microsoft Excel spreadsheets where an entire row or column is merged. (#6216) 
•Reporting of cropped/overflowed text in Microsoft Excel cells should now be more accurate. (#6472) 
•NVDA now reports when a check box is read-only. (#6563) 
•The NVDA launcher will no longer show a warning dialog when it can't play the logo sound due to no audio device being available. (#6289) 
•Controls in the Microsoft Excel Ribbon that are unavailable are now reported as such. (#6430) 
•NVDA will no longer announce "pane" when minimizing windows. (#6671) 
•Typed characters are now spoken in Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps (including Microsoft Edge) in the Windows 10 Creators Update. (#6017) 
•Mouse tracking now works across all screens on computers with multiple monitors. (#6598) 
•NVDA no longer becomes unusable after exiting Windows Media Player while focused on a slider control. (#5467) 

Changes for Developers
•Profiles and configuration files are now automatically upgraded to meet the requirements of schema modifications. If there is an error during upgrade, a notification is shown, the configuration is reset and the old configuration file is available in the NVDA log at 'Info' level. (#6470) 

2016.4

Highlights of this release include improved support for Microsoft Edge; browse mode in the Windows 10 Mail app; and significant improvements to NVDA's dialogs. 

New Features
•NVDA can now indicate line indentation using tones. This can be configured using the "Line indentation reporting" combo box in NVDA's Document Formatting preferences dialog. (#5906) 
•Support for the Orbit Reader 20 braille display. (#6007) 
•An option to open the speech viewer window on startup has been added. This can be enabled via a check box in the speech viewer window. (#5050) 
•When re-opening the speech viewer window, the location and dimensions will now be restored. (#5050) 
•Cross-reference fields in Microsoft Word are now treated like hyperlinks. They are reported as links and can be activated. (#6102) 
•Support for the Baum SuperVario2, Baum Vario 340 and HumanWare Brailliant2 braille displays. (#6116) 
•Initial support for the Anniversary update of Microsoft Edge. (#6271) 
•Browse mode is now used when reading emails in the Windows 10 mail app. (#6271) 
•New language: Lithuanian. 

Changes
•Updated liblouis braille translator to 3.0.0. This includes significant enhancements to Unified English Braille. (#6109, #4194, #6220, #6140) 
•In the Add-ons Manager, the Disable add-on and Enable add-on buttons now have keyboard shortcuts (alt+d and alt+e, respectively). (#6388) 
•Various padding and alignment issues in NVDA's dialogs have been resolved. (#6317, #5548, #6342, #6343, #6349) 
•The document formatting dialog has been adjusted so that the contents scrolls. (#6348) 
•Adjusted the layout of the Symbol Pronunciation dialog so the full width of the dialog is used for the symbols list. (#6101) 
•In browse mode in web browsers, the edit field (e and shift+e) and form field (f and shift+f) single letter navigation commands can now be used to move to read-only edit fields. (#4164) 
•In NVDA's Document Formatting settings, "Announce formatting changes after the cursor" has been renamed to "Report formatting changes after the cursor", as it affects braille as well as speech. (#6336) 
•Adjusted the appearance of the NVDA "Welcome dialog". (#6350) 
•NVDA dialog boxes now have their "ok" and "cancel" buttons aligned to the right of the dialog. (#6333) 
•Spin Controls are now used for numeric input fields such as the "Capital pitch change percentage" setting in the Voice Settings dialog. You can enter the desired value or use the up and down arrow keys to adjust the value. (#6099) 
•The way IFrames (documents embedded within documents) are reported has been made more consistent across web browsers. IFrames are now reported as "frame" in Firefox. (#6047) 

Bug Fixes
•Fixed a rare error when exiting NVDA while the speech viewer is open. (#5050) 
•Image maps now render as expected in browse mode in Mozilla Firefox. (#6051) 
•While in the dictionary dialog, pressing the enter key now saves any changes you have made and closes the dialog. Previously, pressing enter did nothing. (#6206) 
•Messages are now displayed in braille when changing input modes for an input method (native input/alphanumeric, full shaped/half shaped, etc.). (#5892, #5893) 
•When disabling and then immediately re-enabling an add-on or vice versa, the add-on status now correctly reverts to what it was previously. (#6299) 
•When using Microsoft Word, page number fields in headers can now be read. (#6004) 
•The mouse can now be used to move focus between the symbol list and the edit fields in the symbol pronunciation dialog. (#6312) 
•In browse mode in Microsoft Word, Fixed an issue that stops the elements list from appearing when a document contains an invalid hyperlink. (#5886) 
•After being closed via the task bar or the alt+F4 shortcut, the speech viewer check box in the NVDA menu will now reflect the actual visibility of the window. (#6340) 
•The reload plugins command no longer causes problems for triggered configuration profiles, new documents in web browsers and screen review. (#2892, #5380) 
•In the list of languages in NVDA's General Settings dialog, languages such as Aragonese are now displayed correctly on Windows 10. (#6259) 
•Emulated system keyboard keys (e.g. a button on a braille display which emulates pressing the tab key) are now presented in the configured NVDA language in input help and the Input Gestures dialog. Previously, they were always presented in English. (#6212) 
•Changing the NVDA language (from the General Settings dialog) now has no effect until NVDA is restarted. (#4561) 
•It is no longer possible to leave the Pattern field blank for a new speech dictionary entry. (#6412) 
•Fixed a rare issue when scanning for serial ports on some systems which made some braille display drivers unusable. (#6462) 
•In Microsoft Word, Numbered bullets in table cells are now read when moving by cell. (#6446) 
•It is now possible to assign gestures to commands for the Handy Tech braille display driver in the NVDA Input Gestures dialog. (#6461) 
•In Microsoft Excel, pressing enter or numpadEnter when navigating a spreadsheet now correctly reports navigation to the next row. (#6500) 
•iTunes no longer intermittently freezes forever when using browse mode for the iTunes Store, Apple Music, etc. (#6502) 
•Fixed crashes in 64 bit Mozilla and Chrome-based applications. (#6497) 
•In Firefox with multi-process enabled, browse mode and editable text fields now function correctly. (#6380) 

Changes for Developers
•It is now possible to provide app modules for executables containing a dot (.) in their names. Dots are replaced with underscores (_). (#5323) 
•The new gui.guiHelper module includes utilities to simplify the creation of wxPython GUIs, including automatic management of spacing. This facilitates better visual appearance and consistency, as well as easing creation of new GUIs for blind developers. (#6287) 

2016.3

Highlights of this release include the ability to disable individual add-ons; support for form fields in Microsoft Excel; significant improvements to reporting of colors; fixes and improvements related to several braille displays; and fixes and improvements to support for Microsoft Word. 

New Features
•Browse mode can now be used to read PDF documents in Microsoft Edge in the Windows 10 Anniversary Update. (#5740) 
•Strikethrough and double-strikethrough are now reported if appropriate in Microsoft Word. (#5800) 
•In Microsoft Word, the title of a table is now reported if one has been provided. If there is a description, it can be accessed using the open long description command (NVDA+d) in browse mode. (#5943) 
•In Microsoft Word, NVDA now reports position information when moving paragraphs (alt+shift+downArrow and alt+shift+upArrow). (#5945) 
•In Microsoft Word, line spacing is now reported via NVDA's report formatting command, when changing it with various Microsoft word shortcut keys, and when moving to text with different line spacing if Report Line Spacing is turned on in NVDA's Document Formatting Settings. (#2961) 
•In Internet Explorer, HTML5 structural elements are now recognised. (#5591) 
•Reporting of comments (such as in Microsoft Word) can now be disabled via a Report Comments checkbox in NVDA's Document Formatting settings dialog. (#5108) 
•It is now possible to disable individual add-ons in the Add-ons Manager. (#3090) 
•Additional key assignments have been added for ALVA BC640/680 series braille displays. (#5206) 
•There is now a command to move the braille display to the current focus. Currently, only the ALVA BC640/680 series has a key assigned to this command, but it can be assigned manually for other displays in the Input Gestures dialog if desired. (#5250) 
•In Microsoft Excel, you can now interact with form fields. You move to form fields using the Elements List or single letter navigation in browse mode. (#4953) 
•You can now assign an input gesture to toggle simple review mode using the Input Gestures dialog. (#6173) 

Changes
•NVDA now reports colors using a basic well-understood set of 9 color hues and 3 shades, with brightness and paleness variations. This is rather than using more subjective and less understood color names. (#6029) 
•The existing NVDA+F9 then NVDA+F10 behavior has been modified to select text on the first press of F10. When F10 is pressed twice (in quick succession) the text is copied to the clipboard. (#4636) 
•Updated eSpeak NG to version Master 11b1a7b (22 June 2016). (#6037) 

Bug Fixes
•In browse mode in Microsoft Word, copying to the clipboard now preserves formatting. (#5956) 
•In Microsoft Word, NVDA now reports appropriately when using Word's own table navigation commands (alt+home, alt+end, alt+pageUp and alt+pageDown) and table selection commands (shift added to the navigation commands). (#5961) 
•In Microsoft Word dialog boxes, NVDA's object navigation has been greatly improved. (#6036) 
•In some applications such as Visual Studio 2015, shortcut keys (e.g. control+c for Copy) are now reported as expected. (#6021) 
•Fixed a rare issue when scanning for serial ports on some systems which made some braille display drivers unusable. (#6015) 
•Reporting colors in Microsoft Word is now more accurate as changes in Microsoft Office Themes are now taken into account. (#5997) 
•Browse mode for Microsoft Edge and support for Start Menu search suggestions is again available on Windows 10 builds after April 2016. (#5955) 
•In Microsoft Word, automatic table header reading works better when dealing with merged cells. (#5926) 
•In the Windows 10 Mail app, NVDA no longer fails to read the content of messages. (#5635) 
•When speak command keys is on, lock keys such as caps lock are no longer announced twice. (#5490) 
•Windows User Account Control dialogs are again read correctly in the Windows 10 Anniversary update. (#5942) 
•In the Web Conference Plugin (such as used on out-of-sight.net) NVDA no longer beeps and speaks progress bar updates related to microphone input. (#5888) 
•Performing a Find Next or Find Previous command in Browse Mode will now correctly do a case sensitive search if the original Find was case sensitive. (#5522) 
•When editing dictionary entries, feedback is now given for invalid regular expressions. NVDA no longer crashes if a dictionary file contains an invalid regular expression. (#4834) 
•If NVDA is unable to communicate with a braille display (e.g. because it has been disconnected), it will automatically disable use of the display. (#1555) 
•Slightly improved performance of filtering in the Browse Mode Elements List in some cases. (#6126) 
- Trong Microsoft Excel, các tên của mẫu nền được thông báo bởi NVDA giờ đã thống nhất với tên dùng bởi Excel. (#6092)
- Cải thiện khả năng hỗ trợ cho màn hình đăng nhập của Windows 10, bao gồm việc đọc các thông báo và tiếp cận với ô nhập mật khẩu thông qua màn hình cảm ứng. (#6010)
This is a minor release to work around a crash in Google Chrome when navigating tweetts on www.twitter.com/ 

2018.3.1

This is a minor release to fix a critical bug in NVDA which caused 32 bit versions of Mozilla Firefox to crash. (#8759) 

2018.3

Highlights of this release include automatic detection of many Braille displays, support for new Windows 10 features including the Windows 10 Emoji input panel, and many other bug fixes. 

New Features
•NVDA will report grammar errors when appropriately exposed by web pages in Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. (#8280) 
•Content marked as being either inserted or deleted in web pages is now reported in Google Chrome. (#8558) 
•Added support for BrailleNote QT and Apex BT's scroll wheel when BrailleNote is used as a braille display with NVDA. (#5992, #5993) 
•Added scripts for reporting elapsed and total time of current track in Foobar2000. (#6596) 
•The Mac command key symbol (⌘) is now announced when reading text with any synthesizer. (#8366) 
•Custom roles via the aria-roledescription attribute are now supported in all web browsers. (#8448) 
•New braille tables: Czech 8 dot, Central Kurdish, Esperanto, Hungarian, Swedish 8 dot computer braille. (#8226, #8437) 
•Support has been added to automatically detect braille displays in the background. (#1271) ◦ALVA, Baum/HumanWare/APH/Orbit, Eurobraille, Handy Tech, Hims, SuperBraille and HumanWare BrailleNote and Brailliant BI/B displays are currently supported. 
◦You can enable this feature by selecting the automatic option from the list of braille displays in NVDA's braille display selection dialog. 
◦Please consult the documentation for additional details. 

•Added support for various modern input features introduced in recent Windows 10 releases. These include emoji panel (Fall Creators Update), dictation (Fall Creators Update), hardware keyboard input suggestions (April 2018 Update), and cloud clipboard paste (October 2018 Update). (#7273) 
•Content marked as a block quote using ARIA (role blockquote) is now supported in Mozilla Firefox 63. (#8577) 

Changes
•The list of available languages in NVDA's General Settings is now sorted based on language names instead of ISO 639 codes. (#7284) 
•Added default gestures for Alt+Shift+Tab and Windows+Tab with all supported Freedom Scientific braille displays. (#7387) 
•For ALVA BC680 and protocol converter displays, it is now possible to assign different functions to the left and right smart pad, thumb and etouch keys. (#8230) 
•For ALVA BC6 displays, the key combination sp2+sp3 will now announce the current date and time, whereas sp1+sp2 emulates the Windows key. (#8230) 
•The user is asked once when NVDA starts if they are happy sending usage statistics to NV Access when checking for NVDA updates. (#8217) 
•When checking for updates, if the user has agreed to allow sending usage statistics to NV Access, NVDA will now send the name of the current synth driver and braille display in use, to aide in better prioritization for future work on these drivers. (#8217) 
•Updated liblouis braille translator to version 3.6.0. (#8365) 
•Updated the path to the correct Russian eight-dots Braille table. (#8446) 
•Updated eSpeak-ng to 1.49.3dev commit 910f4c2. (#8561) 

Bug Fixes
•Accessible labels for controls in Google Chrome are now more readily reported in browse mode when the label does not appear as content itself. (#4773) 
•Notifications are now supported in Zoom. For example, this includes mute/unmute status, and incoming messages. (#7754) 
•Switching braille context presentation when in browse mode no longer causes braille output to stop following browse mode cursor. (#7741) 
•ALVA BC680 braille displays no longer intermittently fail to initialize. (#8106) 
•By default, ALVA BC6 displays will no longer execute emulated system keyboard keys when pressing key combinations involving sp2+sp3 to trigger internal functionality. (#8230) 
•Pressing sp2 on an ALVA BC6 display to emulate the alt key now works as advertised. (#8360) 
•NVDA no longer announces redundant keyboard layout changes. (#7383, #8419) 
•Mouse tracking is now much more accurate in Notepad and other plain text edit controls when in a document with more than 65535 characters. (#8397) 
•NVDA will recognize more dialogs in Windows 10 and other modern applications. (#8405) 
•On Windows 10 October 2018 Update and Server 2019 and above, NVDA no longer fails to track the system focus when an application freezes or floods the system with events. (#7345, #8535) 
•Users are now informed when attempting to read or copy an empty status bar. (#7789) 
•Fixed an issue where the "not checked" state on controls is not reported in speech if the control has previously been half checked. (#6946) 
•In the list of languages in NVDA's General Settings, language name for Burmese is displayed correctly on Windows 7. (#8544) 
•In Microsoft Edge, NVDA will announce notifications such as reading view availability and page load progress. (#8423) 
•When navigating into a list on the web, NVDA will now report its label if the web author has provided one. (#7652) 
•When manually assigning functions to gestures for a particular braille display, these gestures now always show up as being assigned to that display. Previously, they showed up as if they were assigned to the currently active display. (#8108) 
•The 64-bit version of Media Player Classic is now supported. (#6066) 
•Several improvements to braille support in Microsoft Word with UI Automation enabled: ◦Similar to other multiline text fields, When positioned at the start of a document in Braille, the display is now panned such that the first character of the document is at the start of the display. (#8406) 
◦Reduced overly verbose focus presentation in both speech and braille when focusing a Word document. (#8407) 
◦Cursor routing in braille now works correctly when in a list in a Word document. (#7971) 
◦Newly inserted bullets/numbers in a Word document are correctly reported in both speech and braille. (#7970) 

•In Windows 10 1803 and later, it is now possible to install add-ons if the "Use Unicode UTF-8 for worldwide language support" feature is enabled. (#8599) 
•NVDA will no longer make iTunes 12.9 and newer completely unusable to interact with. (#8744) 

Changes for Developers
•Added scriptHandler.script, which can function as a decorator for scripts on scriptable objects. (#6266) 
•A system test framework has been introduced for NVDA. (#708) 
•Some changes have been made to the hwPortUtils module: (#1271) ◦listUsbDevices now yields dictionaries with device information including hardwareID and devicePath. 
◦Dictionaries yielded by listComPorts now also contain a usbID entry for COM ports with USB VID/PID information in their hardware ID. 

•Updated wxPython to 4.0.3. (#7077) 
•As NVDA now only supports Windows 7 SP1 and later, the key "minWindowsVersion" used to check if UIA should be enabled for a particular release of Windows has been removed. (#8422) 
•You can now register to be notified about configuration saves/reset actions via new config.pre_configSave, config.post_configSave, config.pre_configReset, and config.post_configReset actions. (#7598) ◦config.pre_configSave is used to be notified when NVDA's configuration is about to be saved, and config.post_configSave is called after configuration has been saved. 
◦config.pre_configReset and config.post_configReset includes a factory defaults flag to specify if settings are reloaded from disk (false) or reset to defaults (true). 

•config.configProfileSwitch has been renamed to config.post_configProfileSwitch to reflect the fact that this action is called after profile switch takes place. (#7598) 
•UI Automation interfaces updated to Windows 10 October 2018 Update and Server 2019 (IUIAutomation6 / IUIAutomationElement9). (#8473) 

2018.2.1

This release includes translation updates due to last-minute removal of a feature which caused problems. 

2018.2

Highlights of this release include Support for tables in Kindle for PC, support for HumanWare BrailleNote Touch and BI14 Braille displays, Improvements to both Onecore and Sapi5 speech synthesizers, improvements in Microsoft Outlook and much more. 

New Features
•row and column span for table cells is now reported in speech and braille. (#2642) 
•NVDA table navigation commands are now supported in Google Docs (with Braille mode enabled). (#7946) 
•Added ability to read and navigate tables in Kindle for PC. (#7977) 
•Support for HumanWare BrailleNote touch and Brailliant BI 14 braille displays via both USB and bluetooth. (#6524) 
•In Windows 10 Fall Creators Update and later, NVDA can announce notifications from apps such as Calculator and Windows Store. (#7984) 
•New braille translation tables: Lithuanian 8 dot, Ukrainian, Mongolian grade 2. (#7839) 
•Added a script to report formatting information for the text under a specific braille cell. (#7106) 
•When updating NVDA, it is now possible to postpone the installation of the update to a later moment. (#4263) 
•New languages: Mongolian, Swiss German. 
•You can now toggle control, shift, alt, windows and NVDA from your braille keyboard and combine these modifiers with braille input (e.g. press control+s). (#7306) ◦You can assign these new modifier toggles using the commands found under Emulated system keyboard keys in the Input gestures dialog. 

•Restored support for Handy Tech Braillino and Modular (with old firmware) displays. (#8016) 
•Date and time for supported Handy Tech devices (such as Active Braille and Active Star) will now automatically be synchronized by NVDA when out of sync more than five seconds. (#8016) 
•An input gesture can be assigned to temporarily disable all configuration profile triggers. (#4935) 

Changes
•The status column in the addons manager has been changed to indicate if the addon is enabled or disabled rather than running or suspended. (#7929) 
•Updated liblouis braille translator to 3.5.0. (#7839) 
•The Lithuanian braille table has been renamed to Lithuanian 6 dot to avoid confusion with the new 8 dot table. (#7839) 
•The French (Canada) grade 1 and grade 2 tables have been removed. Instead, the French (unified) 6 dot computer braille and Grade 2 tables will be used respectively. (#7839) 
•The secondary routing buttons on Alva BC6, EuroBraille and Papenmeier braille displays now report formatting information for the text under the braille cell of that button. (#7106) 
•Contracted braille input tables will automatically fall back to uncontracted mode in non-editable cases (i.e. controls where there is no cursor or in browse mode). (#7306) 
•NVDA is now less verbose when an appointment or time slot in the Outlook calendar covers an entire day. (#7949) 
•All of NVDA's Preferences can now be found in one settings dialog under NVDA Menu -> Preferences -> Settings, rather than scattered throughout many dialogs. (#577) 
•The default speech synthesizer when running on Windows 10 is now oneCore speech rather than eSpeak. (#8176) 

Bug Fixes
•NVDA no longer fails to read focused controls in the Microsoft Account sign-in screen in Settings after entering an email address. (#7997) 
•NVDA no longer fails to read the page when going back to a previous page in Microsoft Edge. (#7997) 
•NVDA will no longer incorrectly announce the final character of a windows 10 sign-in PIN as the machine unlocks. (#7908) 
•Labels of checkboxes and radio buttons in Chrome and Firefox are no longer reported twice when tabbing or using quick navigation in Browse mode. (#7960) 
•aria-current with a value of false will be announced as "false" instead of "true". (#7892). 
•Windows OneCore Voices no longer fails to load if the configured voice has been uninstalled. (#7553) 
•Changing voices in the Windows OneCore Voices is now a lot faster. (#7999) 
•Fixed malformed braille output for several braille tables, including capital signs in 8 dot contracted Danish braille. (#7526, #7693) 
•NVDA can now report more bullet types in Microsoft Word. (#6778) 
•Pressing the report formatting script no longer incorrectly moves the reviewPosition and therefore pressing it multiple times no longer gives different results. (#7869) 
•Braille input no longer allows you to use contracted braille in cases where it is not supported (i.e. whole words will no longer be sent to the system outside text content and in browse mode). (#7306) 
•Fixed connection stability issues for Handy Tech Easy Braille and Braille Wave displays. (#8016) 
•On Windows 8 and later, NVDA will no longer announce "unknown" when opening quick link menu )Windows+X) and selecting items from this menu. (#8137) 
•Model specific gestures to buttons on Hims displays are now working as advertised in the user guide. (#8096) 
•NVDA will now try to correct system COM registration issues causing programs such as Firefox and Internet Explorer to become inaccessible and report "Unknown" by NVDA. (#2807) 
•Worked around a bug in Task Manager causing NVDA to not allow users to access the contents of specific details about processes. (#8147) 
•Newer Microsoft SAPI5 voices no longer lag at the end of speech, making it much more efficient to navigate with these voices. (#8174) 
•NVDA no longer reports (LTR and RTL marks) in Braille or per-character speech when accessing the clock in recent versions of Windows. (#5729) 
•Detection of scroll keys on Hims Smart Beetle displays is once more no longer unreliable. (#6086) 
•In some text controls, particularly in Delphi applications, the information provided about editing and navigating is now much more reliable. (#636, #8102) 
•In Windows 10 RS5, NVDA no longer reports extra redundant information when switching tasks with alt+tab. (#8258) 

Changes for developers
•The developer info for UIA objects now contains a list of the UIA patterns available. (#5712) 
•App modules can now force certain windows to always use UIA by implementing the isGoodUIAWindow method. (#7961) 
•The hidden boolean flag "outputPass1Only" in the braille section of the configuration has again been removed. Liblouis no longer supports pass 1 only output. (#7839) 

2018.1.1

This is a special release of NVDA which addresses a bug in the Onecore Windows Speech synthesizer driver, which was causing it to speak with a higher pitch and speed in Windows 10 Redstone 4 (1803). (#8082) 

2018.1

Highlights of this release include support for charts in Microsoft word and PowerPoint, support for new braille displays including Eurobraille and the Optelec protocol converter, improved support for Hims and Optelec braille displays, performance improvements for Mozilla Firefox 58 and higher, and much more. 

New Features
•It is now possible to interact with charts in Microsoft Word and Microsoft PowerPoint, similar to the existing support for charts in Microsoft Excel. (#7046) ◦In Microsoft Word: When in browse mode, cursor to an embedded chart and press enter to interact with it. 
◦In Microsoft PowerPoint when editing a slide: tab to a chart object, and press enter or space to interact with the chart. 
◦To stop interacting with a chart, press escape. 

•New language: Kyrgyz. 
•Added support for VitalSource Bookshelf. (#7155) 
•Added support for the Optelec protocol converter, a device that allows one to use Braille Voyager and Satellite displays using the ALVA BC6 communication protocol. (#6731) 
•It is now possible to use braille input with an ALVA 640 Comfort braille display. (#7733) ◦NVDA's braille input functionality can be used with these as well as other BC6 displays with firmware 3.0.0 and above. 

•Early support for Google Sheets with Braille mode enabled. (#7935) 
•Support for Eurobraille Esys, Esytime and Iris braille displays. (#7488) 

Changes
•The HIMS Braille Sense/Braille EDGE/Smart Beetle and Hims Sync Braille display drivers have been replaced by one driver. The new driver will automatically be activated for former syncBraille driver users. (#7459) ◦Some keys , notably scroll keys, have been reassigned to follow the conventions used by Hims products. Consult the user guide for more details. 

•When typing with the on-screen keyboard via touch interaction, by default you now need to double tap each key the same way you would activate any other control. (#7309) ◦To use the existing "touch typing" mode where simply lifting your finger off the key is enough to activate it, Enable this option in the new Touch Interaction settings dialog found in the Preferences menu. 

•It is no longer necessary to explicitly tether braille to focus or review, as this will happen automatically by default. (#2385) ◦Note that automatic tethering to review will only occur when using a review cursor or object navigation command. Scrolling will not activate this new behavior. 


Bug Fixes
•Browseable messages such as showing current formatting when pressing NVDA+f twice quickly no longer fails when NVDA is installed on a path with non-ASCII characters. (#7474) 
•Focus is now once again restored correctly when returning to Spotify from another application. (#7689) 
•In Windows 10 Fall Creaters Update, NVDA no longer fails to update when Controlled Folder Access is enabled from Windows Defender Security Center. (#7696) 
•Detection of scroll keys on Hims Smart Beetle displays is no longer unreliable. (#6086) 
•A slight performance improvement when rendering large amounts of content in Mozilla Firefox 58 and later. (#7719) 
•In Microsoft Outlook, reading emails containing tables no longer causes errors. (#6827) 
•Braille display gestures that emulate system keyboard key modifiers can now also be combined with other emulated system keyboard keys if one or more of the involved gestures are model specific. (#7783) 
•In Mozilla Firefox, browse mode now works correctly in pop-ups created by extensions such as LastPass and bitwarden. (#7809) 
•NVDA no longer sometimes freezes on every focus change if Firefox or Chrome have stopped responding such as due to a freeze or crash. (#7818) 
•In twitter clients such as Chicken Nugget, NVDA will no longer ignore the last 20 characters of 280 character tweets when reading them. (#7828) 
•NVDA now uses the correct language when announcing symbols when text is selected. (#7687) 
•In recent versions of Office 365, it is again possible to navigate Excel charts using the arrow keys. (#7046) 
•In speech and braille output, control states will now always be reported in the same order, regardless whether they are positive or negative. (#7076) 
•In apps such as Windows 10 Mail, NVDA will no longer fail to announce deleted characters when pressing backspace. (#7456) 
•All keys on the Hims Braille Sense Polaris displays are now working as expected. (#7865) 
•NVDA no longer fails to start on Windows 7 complaining about an internal api-ms dll, when a particular version of the Visual Studio 2017 redistributables have been installed by another application. (#7975) 

Changes for developers
•Added a hidden boolean flag to the braille section in the configuration: "outputPass1Only". (#7301, #7693, #7702) ◦This flag defaults to true. If false, liblouis multi pass rules will be used for braille output. 

•A new dictionary (braille.RENAMED_DRIVERS) has been added to allow for smooth transition for users using drivers that have been superseded by others. (#7459) 
•Updated comtypes package to 1.1.3. (#7831) 
•Implemented a generic system in braille.BrailleDisplayDriver to deal with displays which send confirmation/acknowledgement packets. See the handyTech braille display driver as an example. (#7590, #7721) 
•A new "isAppX" variable in the config module can be used to detect if NVDA is running as a Windows Desktop Bridge Store app. (#7851) 
•For document implementations such as NVDAObjects or browseMode that have a textInfo, there is now a new documentBase.documentWithTableNavigation class that can be inherited from to gain standard table navigation scripts. Please refer to this class to see which helper methods must be provided by your implementation for table navigation to work. (#7849) 
•The scons batch file now better handles when Python 3 is also installed, making use of the launcher to specifically launch python 2.7 32 bit. (#7541) 
•hwIo.Hid now takes an additional parameter exclusive, which defaults to True. If set to False, other applications are allowed to communicate with a device while it is connected to NVDA. (#7859) 

2017.4

Highlights of this release include many fixes and enhancements to web support including browse mode for web dialogs by default, better reporting of field group labels in browse mode, support for new Windows 10 technologies such as Windows Defender Application Guard and Windows 10 on ARM64, and automatic reporting of screen orientation and battery status. Please note that this version of NVDA no longer supports Windows XP or Windows Vista. The minimum requirement for NVDA is now windows 7 with Service Pack 1. 

New Features
•In browse mode, it is now possible to skip past/to the start of landmarks using the skip to end/beginning of container commands (comma/shift+comma). (#5482) 
•In Firefox, Chrome and Internet Explorer, quick navigation to edit fields and form fields now includes editable rich text content (I.e. contentEditable). (#5534) 
•In web browsers, the Elements List can now list form fields and buttons. (#588) 
•Initial support for Windows 10 on ARM64. (#7508) 
•Early support for reading and interactive navigation of mathematical content for Kindle books with accessible math. (#7536) 
•Added support for Azardi e-book reader. (#5848) 
•Version information for add-ons is now reported when being updated. (#5324) 
•Added new command line parameters to create a portable copy of NVDA. (#6329) 
•Support for Microsoft Edge running within Windows Defender Application Guard in Windows 10 Fall Creators Update. (#7600) 
•If running on a laptop or tablet, NVDA will now report when a charger is connected/disconnected, and when the screen orientation changes. (#4574, #4612) 
•New language: Macedonian. 
•New braille translation tables: Croatian grade 1, Vietnamese grade 1. (#7518, #7565) 
•Support for the Actilino braille display from Handy Tech has been added. (#7590) 
•Braille input for Handy Tech braille displays is now supported. (#7590) 

Changes
•The minimum supported Operating System for NVDA is now Windows 7 Service Pack 1, or Windows Server 2008 R2 Service Pack 1. (#7546) 
•Web dialogs in Firefox and Chrome web browsers now automatically use browse Mode, unless inside of a web application. (#4493) 
•In browse mode, tabbing and moving with quick navigation commands no longer announces jumping out of containers such as lists and tables, which makes navigating more efficient. (#2591) 
•In Browse mode for Firefox and Chrome, the name of form field groups are now announced when moving into them with quick navigation or when tabbing. (#3321) 
•In browse mode, the quick navigation command for embedded objects (o and shift+o) now includes audio and video elements as well as elements with the aria roles application and dialog. (#7239) 
•Espeak-ng has been updated to 1.49.2, resolving some issues with producing release builds. (#7385, #7583) 
•On the third activation of the 'read status bar' command, its contents is copied to the clipboard. (#1785) 
•When assigning gestures to keys on a Baum display, you can limit them to the model of the braille display in use (e.g. VarioUltra or Pronto). (#7517) 
•The hotkey for the filter field in the elements list in browse mode has changed from alt+f to alt+e. (#7569) 
•An unbound command has been added for browse mode to toggle the inclusion of layout tables on the fly. You can find this command in the Browse mode category of the Input Gestures dialog. (#7634) 
•Upgraded liblouis braille translator to 3.3.0. (#7565) 
•The hotkey for the regular expression radio button in the dictionary dialog has changed from alt+r to alt+e. (#6782) 
•Voice dictionary files are now versioned and have been moved to the 'speechDicts/voiceDicts.v1' directory. (#7592) 
•Versioned files (user configuration, voice dictionaries) modifications are no longer saved when NVDA is run from the launcher. (#7688) 
•The Braillino, Bookworm and Modular (with old firmware) braille displays from Handy Tech are no longer supported out of the box. Install the Handy Tech Universal Driver and NVDA add-on to use these displays. (#7590) 

Bug Fixes
•Links are now indicated in braille in applications such as Microsoft Word. (#6780) 
•NVDA no longer becomes noticeably slower when many tabs are open in either Firefox or Chrome web browsers. (#3138) 
•Cursor routing for the MDV Lilli Braille display no longer incorrectly moves one braille cell ahead of where it should be. (#7469) 
•In Internet Explorer and other MSHTML documents, the HTML5 required attribute is now supported to indicate the required state of a form field. (#7321) 
•Braille displays are now updated when typing Arabic characters in a left-aligned WordPad document. (#511) 
•Accessible labels for controls in Mozilla Firefox are now more readily reported in browse mode when the label does not appear as content itself. (#4773) 
•On windows 10 Creaters Update, NVDA can again access Firefox after a restart of NVDA. (#7269) 
•When restarting NVDA with Mozilla Firefox in focus, browse mode will again be available, though you may need to alt+tab away and back again. (#5758) 
•It is now possible to access math content in Google Chrome on a system with out Mozilla Firefox installed. (#7308) 
•The Operating System and other applications should be more stable directly after installing NVDA before rebooting, as compaired with installs of previous NVDA versions. (#7563) 
•When using a content recognition command (e.g. NVDA+r), NVDA now reports an error message instead of nothing if the navigator object has disappeared. (#7567) 
•Backward scrolling functionality has been fixed for Freedom Scientific braille displays containing a left bumper bar. (#7713) 

Changes for Developers
•"scons tests" now checks that translatable strings have translator comments. You can also run this alone with "scons checkPot". (#7492) 
•There is now a new extensionPoints module which provides a generic framework to enable code extensibility at specific points in the code. This allows interested parties to register to be notified when some action occurs (extensionPoints.Action), to modify a specific kind of data (extensionPoints.Filter) or to participate in deciding whether something will be done (extensionPoints.Decider). (#3393) 
•You can now register to be notified about configuration profile switches via the config.configProfileSwitched Action. (#3393) 
•Braille display gestures that emulate system keyboard key modifiers (such as control and alt) can now be combined with other emulated system keyboard keys without explicit definition. (#6213) ◦For example, if you have a key on your display bound to the alt key and another display key to downArrow, combining these keys will result in the emulation of alt+downArrow. 

•The braille.BrailleDisplayGesture class now has an extra model property. If provided, pressing a key will generate an additional, model specific gesture identifier. This allows a user to bind gestures limited to a specific braille display model. ◦See the baum driver as an example for this new functionality. 

•NVDA is now compiled with Visual Studio 2017 and the Windows 10 SDK. (#7568) 

2017.3

Highlights of this release include input of contracted braille, support for new Windows OneCore voices available on Windows 10, in-built support for Windows 10 OCR, and many significant improvements regarding Braille and the web. 

New Features
•A Braille setting has been added to "show messages indefinitely". (#6669) 
•In Microsoft Outlook message lists, NVDA now reports if a message is flagged. (#6374) 
•In Microsoft PowerPoint, the exact type of a shape is now reported when editing a slide (such as triangle, circle, video or arrow), rather than just "shape". (#7111) 
•Mathematical content (provided as MathML) is now supported in Google Chrome. (#7184) 
•NVDA can now speak using the new Windows OneCore voices (also known as Microsoft Mobile voices) included in Windows 10. You access these by selecting Windows OneCore voices in NVDA's Synthesizer dialog. (#6159) 
•NVDA user configuration files can now be stored in the user's local application data folder. This is enabled via a setting in the registry. See "System Wide Parameters" in the User Guide for more details. (#6812) 
•In web browsers, NVDA now reports placeholder values for fields (specifically, aria-placeholder is now supported). (#7004) 
•In Browse mode for Microsoft Word, it is now possible to navigate to spelling errors using quick navigation (w and shift+w). (#6942) 
•Added support for the Date picker control found in Microsoft Outlook Appointment dialogs. (#7217) 
•The currently selected suggestion is now reported in Windows 10 Mail to/cc fields and the Windows 10 Settings search field. (#6241) 
•A sound is now playd to indicate the appearance of suggestions in certain search fields in Windows 10 (E.g. start screen, settings search, Windows 10 mail to/cc fields). (#6241) 
•NVDA now automatically reports notifications in Skype for Business Desktop, such as when someone starts a conversation with you. (#7281) 
•NVDA now automatically reports incoming chat messages while in a Skype for Business conversation. (#7286) 
•NVDA now automatically reports notifications in Microsoft Edge, such as when a download starts. (#7281) 
•You can now type in both contracted and uncontracted braille on a braille display with a braille keyboard. See the Braille Input section of the User Guide for details. (#2439) 
•You can now enter Unicode braille characters from the braille keyboard on a braille display by selecting Unicode braille as the input table in Braille Settings. (#6449) 
•Added support for the SuperBraille braille display used in Taiwan. (#7352) 
•New braille translation tables: Danish 8 dot computer braille, Lithuanian, Persian 8 dot computer braille, Persian grade 1, Slovenian 8 dot computer braille. (#6188, #6550, #6773, #7367) 
•Improved English (U.S.) 8 dot computer braille table, including support for bullets, the euro sign and accented letters. (#6836) 
•NVDA can now use the OCR functionality included in Windows 10 to recognize the text of images or inaccessible applications. (#7361) ◦The language can be set from the new Windows 10 OCR dialog in NVDA Preferences. 
◦To recognize the content of the current navigator object, press NVDA+r. 
◦See the Content Recognition section of the User Guide for further details. 

•You can now choose what context information is shown on a braille display when an object gets focus using the new "Focus context presentation" setting in the Braille Settings dialog. (#217) ◦For example, the "Fill display for context changes" and "Only when scrolling back" options can make working with lists and menus more efficient, since the items won't continually change their position on the display. 
◦See the section on the "Focus context presentation" setting in the User Guide for further details and examples. 

•In Firefox and Chrome, NVDA now supports complex dynamic grids such as spreadsheets where only some of the content might be loaded or displayed (specifically, the aria-rowcount, aria-colcount, aria-rowindex and aria-colindex attributes introduced in ARIA 1.1). (#7410) 

Changes
•An unbound command has been added to restart NVDA on demand. You can find it in the Miscelaneous category of the Input Gestures dialog. (#6396) 
•The keyboard layout can now be set from the NVDA Welcome dialog. (#6863) 
•Many more control types and states have been abbreviated for braille. Landmarks have also been abbreviated. Please see "Control Type, State and Landmark Abbreviations" under Braille in the User Guide for a complete list. (#7188, #3975) 
•Updated eSpeak NG to 1.49.1. (#7280) 
•The output and input table lists in the Braille Settings dialog are now sorted alphabetically. (#6113) 
•Updated liblouis braille translator to 3.2.0. (#6935) 
•The default braille table is now Unified English Braille Code grade 1. (#6952) 
•By default, NVDA now only shows the parts of the context information that have changed on a braille display when an object gets focus. (#217) ◦Previously, it always showed as much context information as possible, regardless of whether you have seen the same context information before. 
◦You can revert to the old behaviour by changing the new "Focus context presentation" setting in the Braille Settings dialog to "Always fill display". 

•When using Braille, the cursor can be configured to be a different shape when tethered to focus or review. (#7122) 
•The NVDA logo has been updated. The updated NVDA logo is a stylised blend of the letters NVDA in white, on a solid purple background. This ensures it will be visible on any colour background, and uses the purple from the NV Access logo. (#7446) 

Bug Fixes
•Editable div elements in Chrome no longer have their label reported as their value while in browse mode. (#7153) 
•Pressing end while in browse mode for an empty Microsoft Word document no longer causes a runtime error. (#7009) 
•Browse mode is now correctly supported in Microsoft Edge where a document has been given a specific ARIA role of document. (#6998) 
•In browse mode, you can now select or unselect to the end of the line using shift+end even when the caret is on the last character of the line. (#7157) 
•If a dialog contains a progress bar, the dialog text is now updated in braille when the progress bar changes. This means, for example, that the remaining time can now be read in NVDA's "Downloading Update" dialog. (#6862) 
•NVDA will now announce selection changes for certain Windows 10 combo boxes such as AutoPlay in Settings. (#6337). 
•Pointless information is no longer announced when entering Meeting / Appointment creation dialogs in Microsoft Outlook. (#7216) 
•Beeps for indeterminate progress bar dialogs such as the update checker only when progress bar output is configured to include beeps. (#6759) 
•In Microsoft Excel 2003 and 2007, cells are again reported when arrowing around a worksheet. (#7243) 
•In Windows 10 Creators Update and later, browse mode is again automatically enabled when reading emails in Windows 10 Mail. (#7289) 
•On most braille displays with a braille keyboard, dot 7 now erases the last entered braille cell or character, and dot 8 presses the enter key. (#6054) 
•In editable text, when moving the caret (e.g. with the cursor keys or backspace), NVDA's spoken feedback is now more accurate in many cases, particularly in Chrome and terminal applications. (#6424) 
•The content of the Signature Editor in Microsoft Outlook 2016 can now be read. (#7253) 
•In Java Swing applications, NVDA no longer sometimes causes the application to crash when navigating tables. (#6992) 
•In Windows 10 Creators Update, NVDA will no longer announce toast notifications multiple times. (#7128) 
•In The start menu in Windows 10, pressing Enter to close the start menu after a search no longer causes NVDA to announce search text. (#7370) 
•Performing quick navigation to headings in Microsoft Edge is now significantly faster. (#7343) 
•In Microsoft Edge, navigating in browse mode no longer skips large parts of certain web pages such as the Wordpress 2015 theme. (#7143) 
•In Microsoft Edge, landmarks are correctly localized in languages other than English. (#7328) 
•Braille now correctly follows the selection when selecting text beyond the width of the display. For example, if you select multiple lines with shift+downArrow, braille now shows the last line you selected. (#5770) 
•In Firefox, NVDA no longer spuriously reports "section" several times when opening details for a tweet on twitter.com. (#5741) 
•Table navigation commands are no longer available for layout tables in Browse Mode unless reporting of layout tables is enabled. (#7382) 
•In Firefox and Chrome, Browse Mode table navigation commands now skip over hidden table cells. (#6652, #5655) 

Changes for Developers
•Timestamps in the log now include milliseconds. (#7163) 
•NVDA must now be built with Visual Studio Community 2015. Visual Studio Express is no longer supported. (#7110) ◦The Windows 10 Tools and SDK are now also required, which can be enabled when installing Visual Studio. 
◦See the Installed Dependencies section of the readme for additional details. 

•Support for content recognizers such as OCR and image description tools can be easily implemented using the new contentRecog package. (#7361) 
•The Python json package is now included in NVDA binary builds. (#3050) 

2017.2

Highlights of this release include full support for audio ducking in the Windows 10 Creators Update; fixes for several selection issues in browse mode, including problems with select all; significant improvements in Microsoft Edge support; and improvements on the web such as indication of elements marked as current (using aria-current). 

New Features
•Cell border information can now be reported in Microsoft Excel by using NVDA+f. (#3044) 
•In web browsers, NVDA now indicates when an element has been marked as current (specifically, using the aria-current attribute). (#6358) 
•Automatic language switching is now supported in Microsoft Edge. (#6852) 
•Added support for Windows Calculator on Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB (Long-Term Servicing Branch) and Server. (#6914) 
•Performing the read current line command three times quickly spells the line with character descriptions. (#6893) 
•New language: Burmese. 
•Unicode up and down arrows and fraction symbols are now spoken appropriately. (#3805) 

Changes
•When navigating with simple review in applications using UI Automation, more extraneous objects are now ignored, making navigation easier. (#6948, #6950) 

Bug Fixes
•Web page menu items can now be activated while in browse mode. (#6735) 
•Pressing escape while the configuration profile "Confirm Deletion" dialog is active now dismisses the dialog. (#6851) 
•Fixed some crashes in Mozilla Firefox and other Gecko applications where the multi-process feature is enabled. (#6885) 
•Reporting of background color in screen review is now more accurate when text was drawn with a transparent background. (#6467) 
•Improved support for control descriptions provided on web pages in Internet Explorer 11 (specifically, support for aria-describedby within iframes and when multiple IDs are provided). (#5784) 
•In the Windows 10 Creators Update, NVDA's audio ducking again works as in previous Windows releases; i.e. Duck with speech and sounds, always duck and no ducking are all available. (#6933) 
•NVDA will no longer fail to navigate to or report certain (UIA) controls where a keyboard shortcut is not defined. (#6779) 
•Two empty spaces are no longer added in keyboard shortcut information for certain (UIA) controls. (#6790) 
•Certain combinations of keys on HIMS displays (e.g. space+dot4) no longer fail intermittently. (#3157) 
•Fixed an issue when opening a serial port on systems using certain languages other than English which caused connecting to braille displays to fail in some cases. (#6845) 
•Reduced the chance of the configuration file being corrupted when Windows shuts down. Configuration files are now written to a temporary file before replacing the actual configuration file. (#3165) 
•When performing the read current line command twice quickly to spell the line, the appropriate language is now used for the spelled characters. (#6726) 
•Navigating by line in Microsoft Edge is now up to three times faster in the Windows 10 Creators Update. (#6994) 
•NVDA no longer announces "Web Runtime grouping" when focusing Microsoft Edge documents in the Windows 10 Creators Update. (#6948) 
•All existing versions of SecureCRT are now supported. (#6302) 
•Adobe Acrobat Reader no longer crashes in certain PDF documents (specifically, those containing empty ActualText attributes). (#7021, #7034) 
•In browse mode in Microsoft Edge, interactive tables (ARIA grids) are no longer skipped when navigating to tables with t and shift+t. (#6977) 
•In browse mode, pressing shift+home after selecting forward now unselects to the beginning of the line as expected. (#5746) 
•In browse mode, select all (control+a) no longer fails to select all text if the caret is not at the start of the text. (#6909) 
•Fixed some other rare selection problems in browse mode. (#7131) 

Changes for Developers
•Commandline arguments are now processed with Python's argparse module, rather than optparse. This allows certain options such as -r and -q to be handled exclusively. (#6865) 
•core.callLater now queues the callback to NVDA's main queue after the given delay, rather than waking the core and executing it directly. This stops possible freezes due to the core accidentally going to sleep after processing a callback, in the midle of a modal call such as the desplaying of a message box. (#6797) 
•The InputGesture.identifiers property has been changed so that it is no longer normalized. (#6945) ◦Subclasses no longer need to normalize identifiers before returning them from this property. 
◦If you want normalized identifiers, there is now an InputGesture.normalizedIdentifiers property which normalizes the identifiers returned by the identifiers property . 

•The InputGesture.logIdentifier property is now deprecated. Callers should use InputGesture.identifiers[0] instead. (#6945) 
•Removed some deprecated code: ◦`speech.REASON_*` constants: `controlTypes.REASON_*` should be used instead. (#6846) 
◦`i18nName` for synth settings: `displayName` and `displayNameWithAccelerator` should be used instead. (#6846, #5185) 
◦`config.validateConfig`. (#6846, #667) 
◦`config.save`: `config.conf.save` should be used instead. (#6846, #667) 

•The list of completions in the autocomplete context menu of the Python Console no longer shows any object path leading up to the final symbol being completed. (#7023) 
•There is now a unit testing framework for NVDA. (#7026) ◦Unit tests and infrastructure are located in the tests/unit directory. See the docstring in the tests\unit\init.py file for details. 
◦You can run tests using "scons tests". See the "Running Tests" section of readme.md for details. 
◦If you are submitting a pull request for NVDA, you should first run the tests and ensure they pass. 


2017.1

Highlights of this release include reporting of sections and text columns in Microsoft Word; Support for reading, navigating and annotating books in Kindle for PC; and improved support for Microsoft Edge. 

New Features
•In Microsoft Word, the types of section breaks and section numbers can now be reported. This is enabled with the "Report page numbers" option in the Document Formatting dialog. (#5946) 
•In Microsoft Word, text columns can now be reported. This is enabled with the "Report page numbers" option in the document formatting dialog. (#5946) 
•Automatic language switching is now supported in WordPad. (#6555) 
•The NVDA find command (NVDA+control+f) is now supported in browse mode in Microsoft Edge. (#6580) 
•Quick navigation for buttons in browse mode (b and shift+b) is now supported in Microsoft Edge. (#6577) 
•When copying a sheet in Microsoft Excel, column and row headers are remembered. (#6628) 
•Support for reading and navigating books in Kindle for PC version 1.19, including access to links, footnotes, graphics, highlighted text and user notes. Please see the Kindle for PC section of the NVDA User Guide for further information. (#6247, #6638) 
•Browse mode table navigation is now supported in Microsoft Edge. (#6594) 
•In Microsoft Excel, the report review cursor location command (desktop: NVDA+numpadDelete, laptop: NVDA+delete) now reports the name of the worksheet and the cell location. (#6613) 
•Added an option to the exit dialog to restart with debug level logging. (#6689) 

Changes
•The minimum braille cursor blink rate is now 200 ms. If this was previously set lower, it will be increased to 200 ms. (#6470) 
•A check box has been added to the braille settings dialog to allow enabling/disabling braille cursor blinking. Previously a value of zero was used to achieve this. (#6470) 
•Updated eSpeak NG (commit e095f008, 10 January 2017). (#6717) 
•Due to changes In the Windows 10 Creators Update, the "Always duck" mode is no longer available in NVDA's Audio ducking settings. It is still available on older windows 10 releases. (#6684) 
•Due to changes in the Windows 10 Creators Update, the "Duck when outputting speech and sounds" mode can no longer ensure audio has ducked fully before starting to speak, nor will it keep audio ducked long enough after speaking to stop rappid bouncing in volume. These changes do not affect older windows 10 releases. (#6684) 

Bug Fixes
•Fixed freeze in Microsoft Word when moving by paragraph through a large document while in browse mode. (#6368) 
•Tables in Microsoft Word that have been copied from Microsoft Excel are no longer treeted as layout tables and therefore are no longer ignored. (#5927) 
•When trying to type in Microsoft Excel while in protected view, NVDA now makes a sound rather than speaking characters that were not actually typed. (#6570) 
•Pressing escape in Microsoft Excel no longer incorrectly switches to browse mode, unless the user has previously switched to browse mode explicitly with NVDA+space and then entered focus mode by pressing enter on a form field. (#6569) 
•NVDA no longer freezes in Microsoft Excel spreadsheets where an entire row or column is merged. (#6216) 
•Reporting of cropped/overflowed text in Microsoft Excel cells should now be more accurate. (#6472) 
•NVDA now reports when a check box is read-only. (#6563) 
•The NVDA launcher will no longer show a warning dialog when it can't play the logo sound due to no audio device being available. (#6289) 
•Controls in the Microsoft Excel Ribbon that are unavailable are now reported as such. (#6430) 
•NVDA will no longer announce "pane" when minimizing windows. (#6671) 
•Typed characters are now spoken in Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps (including Microsoft Edge) in the Windows 10 Creators Update. (#6017) 
•Mouse tracking now works across all screens on computers with multiple monitors. (#6598) 
•NVDA no longer becomes unusable after exiting Windows Media Player while focused on a slider control. (#5467) 

Changes for Developers
•Profiles and configuration files are now automatically upgraded to meet the requirements of schema modifications. If there is an error during upgrade, a notification is shown, the configuration is reset and the old configuration file is available in the NVDA log at 'Info' level. (#6470) 

2016.4

Highlights of this release include improved support for Microsoft Edge; browse mode in the Windows 10 Mail app; and significant improvements to NVDA's dialogs. 

New Features
•NVDA can now indicate line indentation using tones. This can be configured using the "Line indentation reporting" combo box in NVDA's Document Formatting preferences dialog. (#5906) 
•Support for the Orbit Reader 20 braille display. (#6007) 
•An option to open the speech viewer window on startup has been added. This can be enabled via a check box in the speech viewer window. (#5050) 
•When re-opening the speech viewer window, the location and dimensions will now be restored. (#5050) 
•Cross-reference fields in Microsoft Word are now treated like hyperlinks. They are reported as links and can be activated. (#6102) 
•Support for the Baum SuperVario2, Baum Vario 340 and HumanWare Brailliant2 braille displays. (#6116) 
•Initial support for the Anniversary update of Microsoft Edge. (#6271) 
•Browse mode is now used when reading emails in the Windows 10 mail app. (#6271) 
•New language: Lithuanian. 

Changes
•Updated liblouis braille translator to 3.0.0. This includes significant enhancements to Unified English Braille. (#6109, #4194, #6220, #6140) 
•In the Add-ons Manager, the Disable add-on and Enable add-on buttons now have keyboard shortcuts (alt+d and alt+e, respectively). (#6388) 
•Various padding and alignment issues in NVDA's dialogs have been resolved. (#6317, #5548, #6342, #6343, #6349) 
•The document formatting dialog has been adjusted so that the contents scrolls. (#6348) 
•Adjusted the layout of the Symbol Pronunciation dialog so the full width of the dialog is used for the symbols list. (#6101) 
•In browse mode in web browsers, the edit field (e and shift+e) and form field (f and shift+f) single letter navigation commands can now be used to move to read-only edit fields. (#4164) 
•In NVDA's Document Formatting settings, "Announce formatting changes after the cursor" has been renamed to "Report formatting changes after the cursor", as it affects braille as well as speech. (#6336) 
•Adjusted the appearance of the NVDA "Welcome dialog". (#6350) 
•NVDA dialog boxes now have their "ok" and "cancel" buttons aligned to the right of the dialog. (#6333) 
•Spin Controls are now used for numeric input fields such as the "Capital pitch change percentage" setting in the Voice Settings dialog. You can enter the desired value or use the up and down arrow keys to adjust the value. (#6099) 
•The way IFrames (documents embedded within documents) are reported has been made more consistent across web browsers. IFrames are now reported as "frame" in Firefox. (#6047) 

Bug Fixes
•Fixed a rare error when exiting NVDA while the speech viewer is open. (#5050) 
•Image maps now render as expected in browse mode in Mozilla Firefox. (#6051) 
•While in the dictionary dialog, pressing the enter key now saves any changes you have made and closes the dialog. Previously, pressing enter did nothing. (#6206) 
•Messages are now displayed in braille when changing input modes for an input method (native input/alphanumeric, full shaped/half shaped, etc.). (#5892, #5893) 
•When disabling and then immediately re-enabling an add-on or vice versa, the add-on status now correctly reverts to what it was previously. (#6299) 
•When using Microsoft Word, page number fields in headers can now be read. (#6004) 
•The mouse can now be used to move focus between the symbol list and the edit fields in the symbol pronunciation dialog. (#6312) 
•In browse mode in Microsoft Word, Fixed an issue that stops the elements list from appearing when a document contains an invalid hyperlink. (#5886) 
•After being closed via the task bar or the alt+F4 shortcut, the speech viewer check box in the NVDA menu will now reflect the actual visibility of the window. (#6340) 
•The reload plugins command no longer causes problems for triggered configuration profiles, new documents in web browsers and screen review. (#2892, #5380) 
•In the list of languages in NVDA's General Settings dialog, languages such as Aragonese are now displayed correctly on Windows 10. (#6259) 
•Emulated system keyboard keys (e.g. a button on a braille display which emulates pressing the tab key) are now presented in the configured NVDA language in input help and the Input Gestures dialog. Previously, they were always presented in English. (#6212) 
•Changing the NVDA language (from the General Settings dialog) now has no effect until NVDA is restarted. (#4561) 
•It is no longer possible to leave the Pattern field blank for a new speech dictionary entry. (#6412) 
•Fixed a rare issue when scanning for serial ports on some systems which made some braille display drivers unusable. (#6462) 
•In Microsoft Word, Numbered bullets in table cells are now read when moving by cell. (#6446) 
•It is now possible to assign gestures to commands for the Handy Tech braille display driver in the NVDA Input Gestures dialog. (#6461) 
•In Microsoft Excel, pressing enter or numpadEnter when navigating a spreadsheet now correctly reports navigation to the next row. (#6500) 
•iTunes no longer intermittently freezes forever when using browse mode for the iTunes Store, Apple Music, etc. (#6502) 
•Fixed crashes in 64 bit Mozilla and Chrome-based applications. (#6497) 
•In Firefox with multi-process enabled, browse mode and editable text fields now function correctly. (#6380) 

Changes for Developers
•It is now possible to provide app modules for executables containing a dot (.) in their names. Dots are replaced with underscores (_). (#5323) 
•The new gui.guiHelper module includes utilities to simplify the creation of wxPython GUIs, including automatic management of spacing. This facilitates better visual appearance and consistency, as well as easing creation of new GUIs for blind developers. (#6287) 

2016.3

Highlights of this release include the ability to disable individual add-ons; support for form fields in Microsoft Excel; significant improvements to reporting of colors; fixes and improvements related to several braille displays; and fixes and improvements to support for Microsoft Word. 

New Features
•Browse mode can now be used to read PDF documents in Microsoft Edge in the Windows 10 Anniversary Update. (#5740) 
•Strikethrough and double-strikethrough are now reported if appropriate in Microsoft Word. (#5800) 
•In Microsoft Word, the title of a table is now reported if one has been provided. If there is a description, it can be accessed using the open long description command (NVDA+d) in browse mode. (#5943) 
•In Microsoft Word, NVDA now reports position information when moving paragraphs (alt+shift+downArrow and alt+shift+upArrow). (#5945) 
•In Microsoft Word, line spacing is now reported via NVDA's report formatting command, when changing it with various Microsoft word shortcut keys, and when moving to text with different line spacing if Report Line Spacing is turned on in NVDA's Document Formatting Settings. (#2961) 
•In Internet Explorer, HTML5 structural elements are now recognised. (#5591) 
•Reporting of comments (such as in Microsoft Word) can now be disabled via a Report Comments checkbox in NVDA's Document Formatting settings dialog. (#5108) 
•It is now possible to disable individual add-ons in the Add-ons Manager. (#3090) 
•Additional key assignments have been added for ALVA BC640/680 series braille displays. (#5206) 
•There is now a command to move the braille display to the current focus. Currently, only the ALVA BC640/680 series has a key assigned to this command, but it can be assigned manually for other displays in the Input Gestures dialog if desired. (#5250) 
•In Microsoft Excel, you can now interact with form fields. You move to form fields using the Elements List or single letter navigation in browse mode. (#4953) 
•You can now assign an input gesture to toggle simple review mode using the Input Gestures dialog. (#6173) 

Changes
•NVDA now reports colors using a basic well-understood set of 9 color hues and 3 shades, with brightness and paleness variations. This is rather than using more subjective and less understood color names. (#6029) 
•The existing NVDA+F9 then NVDA+F10 behavior has been modified to select text on the first press of F10. When F10 is pressed twice (in quick succession) the text is copied to the clipboard. (#4636) 
•Updated eSpeak NG to version Master 11b1a7b (22 June 2016). (#6037) 

Bug Fixes
•In browse mode in Microsoft Word, copying to the clipboard now preserves formatting. (#5956) 
•In Microsoft Word, NVDA now reports appropriately when using Word's own table navigation commands (alt+home, alt+end, alt+pageUp and alt+pageDown) and table selection commands (shift added to the navigation commands). (#5961) 
•In Microsoft Word dialog boxes, NVDA's object navigation has been greatly improved. (#6036) 
•In some applications such as Visual Studio 2015, shortcut keys (e.g. control+c for Copy) are now reported as expected. (#6021) 
•Fixed a rare issue when scanning for serial ports on some systems which made some braille display drivers unusable. (#6015) 
•Reporting colors in Microsoft Word is now more accurate as changes in Microsoft Office Themes are now taken into account. (#5997) 
•Browse mode for Microsoft Edge and support for Start Menu search suggestions is again available on Windows 10 builds after April 2016. (#5955) 
•In Microsoft Word, automatic table header reading works better when dealing with merged cells. (#5926) 
•In the Windows 10 Mail app, NVDA no longer fails to read the content of messages. (#5635) 
•When speak command keys is on, lock keys such as caps lock are no longer announced twice. (#5490) 
•Windows User Account Control dialogs are again read correctly in the Windows 10 Anniversary update. (#5942) 
•In the Web Conference Plugin (such as used on out-of-sight.net) NVDA no longer beeps and speaks progress bar updates related to microphone input. (#5888) 
•Performing a Find Next or Find Previous command in Browse Mode will now correctly do a case sensitive search if the original Find was case sensitive. (#5522) 
•When editing dictionary entries, feedback is now given for invalid regular expressions. NVDA no longer crashes if a dictionary file contains an invalid regular expression. (#4834) 
•If NVDA is unable to communicate with a braille display (e.g. because it has been disconnected), it will automatically disable use of the display. (#1555) 
•Slightly improved performance of filtering in the Browse Mode Elements List in some cases. (#6126) 
•In Microsoft Excel, the background pattern names reported by NVDA now match those used by Excel. (#6092) 
•Improved support for the Windows 10 logon screen, including announcement of alerts and activating of the password field with touch. (#6010) 
- Giờ đây, NVDA đã nhận chính xác các nút secondary routing trên các màn hình chữ nổi ALVA dòng BC640/680. (#5206)
- NVDA lại tiếp tục đọc được các thông báo Toast của Windows trong các bản phát hành gần đây của Windows 10. (#6096)
- NVDA không còn tình trạng thỉnh thoảng không nhận biết các phím được bấm trên các màn hình nổi tương thích của Baum và HumanWare Brailliant B. (#6035)
- Nếu bật tính năng thông báo số dòng trong cài đặt định dạng tài liệu của NVDA, nó cũng sẽ hiển thị tên màn hình chữ nổi. (#5941)
- Khi tắt chế độ đọc, việc lấy thông tin qua các lệnh ở nhóm thông báo đôi tượng (Ví dụ: NVDA+Tab để thông báo vị trí con trỏ) sẽ hiển thị trong Speech Viewer như mong đợi. (#6049)
- Trong danh sách thư của Outlook 2016, không còn tình trạng thông báo các thông tin nháp. (#6219)
- Trong Google Chrome hay các trình duyệt dựa trên nền tảng này, và không sử dụng tiếng Anh, chế độ dhuyệt không bị lỗi khi đọc tài liệu. (#6249)


= Các phiên bản cũ =
Các thay đổi và tính năng mới của các phiên bản cũ hiện không được dịch sang tiếng Việt. Vui lòng xem bản tiếng Anh changes.t2t để biết thêm thông tin.
