[[!meta title="Welcome to the NVDA Community Add-ons website"]]

[NVDA][1] is a very flexible and extensible screen reader.
NVDA add-ons are additional packages that can be downloaded and installed into your copy of NVDA to enhance existing functionality or add additional features.
These add-ons may include additional features and commands that can be used everywhere, enhancing support for a program, or add support for a new braille display or a speech synthesizer.

On these pages, you will find add-ons that have been created by members of the community.
Please note that many of these add-ons are not provided by NV Access, so NV Access cannot be held responsible for these add-ons.

To install an add-on, go to the NVDA tools menu, then select manage add-ons. 
Then select install, navigate to the location where you saved the downloaded add-on and choose the add-on package you wish to install.
Alternatively, if you installed NVDA 2012.3 or later on your computer, using file manager of your choice, navigate to the location where you stored the add-on, then press ENTER on the nvda-add-on file you wish to install.

Once you press Open, or press Enter on the add-on file, NVDA will ask if you really wish to install the add-on, provided that it is compatible with the NVDA version you are using.
As the functionality of add-ons is unrestricted inside NVDA, which in theory could include accessing your personal data or even the entire system if NVDA is an installed copy, it is very important to only install add-ons from sources you trust.
Once the add-on is installed, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to start running. 

You can subscribe to [NVDA Add-ons Central mailing list][2] to talk about how to write add-ons, get advice to solve specific problems, share news that impacts add-on developers etc.

If you want to have your add-on listed on this website, please senditto the add-on store[3].
See the [requirements for add-on submissions][4] for details.

Note that not all add-ons shown on this website are compatible with all NVDA releases.
If you notice that an add-on is no longer actively maintained or is not compatible with a particular NVDA release, please let the community know.
Incompatible or inactive add-ons will be shown under legacy section, and will be shown on front page again otherwise.
Also, add-on developers may choose to show beta or dev add-ons only under development section, until a stable version is released.

Please feel free to subscribe to the rss feeds or the add-ons list to be informed on when new add-ons or a new version of an add-on is made available.
The mailing list includes an optional subgroup to receive, if desired, automated notifications when documentation or add-ons are updated on this website.
Additionally, developers can set automated notifications about changes in their add-on repositories to be posted on a dedicated subgroup, to facilitate code reviews and improve the quality of their work. Developers can request to have their add-ons listed in this [list of add-on repositories][5] to get direct feedback. 

The following community supported add-ons are available:

[[!inline  pages="tagged(stable) and currentlang()" archive="yes"]]

This website is being maintained by the NVDA translation team.

[1]: https://www.nvaccess.org

[2]: https://nvda-addons.groups.io/g/nvda-addons

[3]: https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore

[4]: https://addons.nvda-project.org/requirements

[5]: https://github.com/nvdaaddons/nvdaaddons.github.io/wiki/repos
