Several Chinese input reporting corrections and improvements

Description: 
From NVDA alpha 17789, e03e6973, the program started to support Chinese input methods. It was really an exciting improvement of NVDA because we’ve all waiting for this support for a long time. 
However, the support is not perfect, and even worse. 

The main issues we discovered are listed below: 
1.	No composition reports in a Microsoft word document controls and Tencent QQ dialog message edit box.
2.	When reporting long candidates, Chinese users use to let NVDA reports the candidate itself first then reports the descriptions of each characters instead of only reporting those descriptions. The reason is that we need more efficiency when typing. However, sometimes we are not sure that we are selecting the correct string, so we need to listen to the description of each characters later, but that only happens occasionally. 
3.	We actually don’t need the serial numbers of the candidates because the order of candidates is changed depends on our input habits all the time. You can either move it to the end of the reports or simply delete them. 
4.	Actually, Chinese input methods report is a very complicated thing. Different individuals have different habits, the situations I listed above only applies to talented computer users who are very familiar with Chinese input. Based on that, we suggest you to add several options of Chinese input methods report. 
·	Definition of “long candidates”, How many characters is defined as “long”. 
·	How to report long candidates, e.g. “Candidate only”, “Description only”, “Candidate first”, “Description first”. 
·	How to report short candidates, e.g. “Candidate only”, “Description only”, “Candidate first”, “Description first”. 
·	Whether or not reports the serial number of the candidate. 

If any questions, please contact us via GitHub 

In addition, welcome to the NVDA’s simplified Chinese developing QQ group chat. 
The group ID is: 781590153

All Simplified Chinese developers. 

